IACR Communications in Cryptology                           https://doi.org/10.62056/angy11fgx
ISSN 3006-5496, Vol. 2, No. 3, 38 pages.                                            Check for updates




         zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Succinct
    Non-Interactive Matrix Multiplication Proofs

                    Biniyam Deressa            and M. Anwar Hasan

                           University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Canada


      Abstract.
      We introduce zkMaP (Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Matrix Multiplication
      Proofs), a novel non-interactive zero-knowledge proof system for verifying matrix
      multiplication with significant improvements in efficiency and scalability. Our protocol
      leverages KZG polynomial commitments and an innovative inner-product reduction
      technique to reduce the verification of n × n matrix multiplication to a single pairing
      equation, thereby enabling constant-time verification independent of the matrix size.
      In particular, zkMaP requires only two pairing operations and produces proofs as
      small as 320 bytes, yielding a 96% reduction in proof size compared to prior schemes.
      Furthermore, the prover’s computational complexity follows the state-of-the-art at
      O(n2 ), with experimental results demonstrating that proofs for 1024 × 1024 matrices
      can be generated in approximately 12.21 seconds, offering a 16.14× speedup over
      previous methods. Our implementation also exhibits better memory efficiency, using
      only 24.58 MB of prover-side RAM for 1024 × 1024 matrices, and supports scalable
      batch processing, achieving per-proof generation times of 46.79 milliseconds for 1024
      instances while maintaining a constant verification time of 3.6 ms.
      Keywords: Zero-Knowledge Proofs · Succinct Non-Interactive Arguments · Matrix
      Multiplication · Polynomial Commitments · Batch Verification



1     Introduction
Matrix multiplication is a core computational primitive with wide-ranging applications in
fields such as machine learning, data analytics, scientific computing, and cryptography. In
an era where data-driven decision-making and collaborative computation underpin critical
applications, ensuring both privacy and verifiability is more important than ever. Zero-
knowledge proofs (ZKPs) have emerged as a transformative cryptographic tool, enabling
a prover to demonstrate the validity of a statement to a verifier without disclosing any
underlying secret information.

However, directly applying conventional ZKP systems (such as zk-SNARKs [BCCT12]
or zk-STARKs [BSBHR18]) to matrix multiplication presents significant challenges. For
large-scale datasets, succinctness becomes a critical concern: it is imperative that the
proof size and verification time remain small, ideally constant or polylogarithmic in the
size of the matrix. Furthermore, prover efficiency presents another substantial hurdle, as
standard approaches that encode matrix multiplication in arithmetic circuits typically
incur a prover complexity of O(n3 ) for n × n matrices, which is prohibitive for high-
dimensional operations [XZZ+ 19, PHGR16]. Additionally, many applications require
multiple, sequential matrix multiplications (e.g., in deep neural networks), necessitating

    E-mail: bderessa@uwaterloo.ca (Biniyam Deressa), ahasan@uwaterloo.ca (M. Anwar Hasan)


This work is licensed under a “CC BY 4.0” license.
Received: 2025-07-06                          Accepted: 2025-09-02
2                                  zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


commitment consistency where the same private inputs are consistently committed across
different operations.

This work presents zkMaP, a specialized zero-knowledge protocol for matrix multiplication
that achieves significant improvements over existing approaches. Our protocol leverages
Kate-Zaverucha-Goldberg (KZG) polynomial commitments [KZG10] combined with an
efficient inner-product reduction technique to transform matrix multiplication verification
into a succinct polynomial identity check. zkMaP requires only two pairing operations and
produces proofs as small as 320 bytes, yielding a 96% reduction in proof size compared
to prior schemes. Furthermore, the prover’s computational complexity follows the state-
of-the-art at O(n2 ), with experimental results demonstrating that proofs for 1024 × 1024
matrices can be generated in approximately 12.21 seconds, offering a 16.14× speedup over
previous methods.



1.1    Paper Organization
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. Section 1.2 surveys related work.
Section 1.3 outlines our main contributions. Section 2 introduces the necessary algebraic
background and notation. Section 3 defines the matrix multiplication proof problem and
the corresponding security model. Section 4 presents the zkMaP protocol. Section 5
formally proves completeness, soundness, and zero-knowledge. Section 6 extends the
protocol to support efficient batch verification. Section 7 analyzes computational costs.
Section 8 reports experimental results. Section 9 concludes the paper.

1.2    Related Works
Zero-knowledge proofs (ZKPs) have evolved significantly over the past decade, driven by
the need for privacy-preserving verification in a variety of applications. Early systems
such as Pinocchio [PHGR16], Sonic, [MBKM19], Hyperplonk [CBBZ23], Groth16 [Gro16]
demonstrated that succinct non-interactive zero-knowledge (zk-SNARK) proofs could
achieve constant-size communication and polylogarithmic verification time. However, when
these generic systems are applied to specific problems like matrix multiplication, their
prover complexity scales poorly (typically as O(n3 ) for n × n matrices), which limits their
practical utility.
To address these limitations, Thaler [Tha13] proposed a specialized protocol that reduces
matrix multiplication into a sumcheck relation. By leveraging this transformation, the
prover time can be reduced to O(n2 ). Unfortunately, this gain comes at the expense
of verification efficiency, with verification time growing linearly with the matrix size.
Building on this idea, LegoSNARK [CFQ19] further refines the approach by ensuring
that the intermediate computations are consistent across multiple sequential operations.
LegoSNARK achieves O(n2 ) prover time and polylogarithmic verifier time, which makes it
more suitable for applications where consistency of secret inputs (such as in neural network
layers) is critical. In contrast, Libra [XZZ+ 19] uses alternative cryptographic primitives
to obtain improvements in transcript size and verification efficiency. However, Libra still
suffers from relatively high prover overhead in certain cases, particularly when matrix
dimensions increase.
QuickSilver [YSWW21] takes a distinct approach by employing interactive protocols and
secure multiparty computation to achieve O(n2 ) complexity for both the prover and the
verifier. Although this approach reduces the computational burden, it introduces non-
negligible communication overhead and additional complexity in managing the interactive
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                             3


rounds. Another line of work that has influenced the design of efficient ZK protocols is
the use of inner-product arguments, most notably Bulletproofs [BBB+ 18]. Bulletproofs
achieve logarithmic verifier time for range proofs and can be adapted to prove inner-
product relations. However, their direct application to matrix multiplication is inefficient,
as it requires multiple inner-product proofs and careful management of intermediate
commitments to ensure consistency.
In parallel, universal and upgradable zk-SNARK constructions such as Sonic [MBKM19],
Marlin [CHM+ 20], and PLONK [GWC19] have emerged. These protocols provide com-
pelling features, including universal setup and efficient update mechanisms, but their
generality often leads to reduced efficiency for specific operations such as matrix multipli-
cation. The zkMatrix protocol [CYY24] distinguishes itself in this context by achieving
O(n2 ) prover time for the multiplication of two n × n matrices while maintaining a suc-
cinct transcript and logarithmic verifier time. By employing batch processing, zkMatrix
supports simultaneous proofs for multiple matrix multiplications with minimal additional
overhead. The approach leverages Bulletproofs-inspired techniques to shift computational
load from the verifier to the prover, making it highly efficient even in settings where
multiple operations are performed sequentially.
Our zkMaP protocol further advances the state-of-the-art by using KZG polynomial com-
mitments to achieve constant-size proofs and constant verification time, while maintaining
the O(n2 ) prover time that matches the inherent complexity of matrix operations. A key
distinction is that zkMaP operates directly on matrices without requiring arithmetic circuit
representations, unlike Pinocchio [PHGR16], Groth16 [Gro16], LegoSNARK [CFQ19], and
Libra [XZZ+ 19], which all necessitate transforming matrix multiplication into complex cir-
cuit constraints. This circuit-free approach eliminates the substantial overhead associated
with circuit generation and evaluation. Furthermore, zkMaP is non-interactive and requires
only logarithmic additional memory beyond the cost of storing matrices and the struc-
tured reference string. Our sub-batching technique for batch verification (Batch-zkMaP)
allows processing multiple matrix multiplications with controlled memory usage of O(n2 )
regardless of the total batch size t, requiring only O(tn2 ) field multiplications plus ⌈t/b⌉
exponentiations for t matrix pairs, where the configurable parameter b determines the
memory-performance trade-off. As demonstrated in our implementation, zkMaP exhibits
significant performance improvements over existing schemes in both proof generation and
verification times, particularly for large matrices and batch verification operations.
Table 1 summarizes the computational complexity and proof characteristics of existing
ZKP schemes for matrix multiplication, including our proposed approach using KZG
commitments. (Note: The complexity bounds reflect the additional overhead for proof
generation and verification; inherent costs such as storing the matrices or the full SRS are
not included.)

1.3    Our Contributions
Our contributions are multi-fold. First, we present zkMaP, a novel zero-knowledge proof
protocol for matrix multiplication that substantially advances the state of the art. Our
zkMaP leverages a specialized polynomial representation with KZG commitments, achieving
a 320-byte proof size at 128-bit security and a constant 3.6 ms verification time, independent
of matrix dimensions. For 1024 × 1024 matrices, zkMaP delivers a 16.14× prover speedup
over previous methods while reducing proof size by 96%. The protocol extends naturally
to non-square matrices A ∈ Fm×ℓ  p   and B ∈ Fℓ×np   while maintaining constant verification
time and proof size, addressing a key limitation of existing approaches.
Secondly, for batch verification, we extend zkMaP with a random-linear-combination
aggregation mechanism that scales efficiently without compromising its core advantages.
4                                                   zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


Our method employs structured challenge vectors and weighted polynomial aggregation
to mitigate adversarial cancellation, thereby ensuring computational soundness even at
large batch sizes. Batch zkMaP maintains constant verification time and proof size across
all batch sizes. Processing a batch of 1,024 matrix multiplication instances, batch zkMaP
achieves a per-proof generation time of 46.79 milliseconds.

Third, we present a comprehensive security analysis establishing a theoretical founda-
tion for zkMaP under the q-Strong Diffie-Hellman (q-SDH) assumption. We prove that
the protocol satisfies perfect completeness, special honest verifier zero-knowledge, and
computational knowledge soundness. Any proof forgery would require solving the q-SDH
problem with non-negligible probability. By linking polynomial degree bounds to protocol
security, we ensure distinct matrices yield distinct polynomials while maintaining efficient
verification. This framework guarantees zkMaP’s robustness against adversarial attacks
without compromising performance.

Fourth, we provide comprehensive complexity analysis covering both computational and
memory requirements for all protocol phases. Our analysis encompasses field operations,
group exponentiations, pairing computations, and memory usage patterns, enabling prac-
titioners to predict performance characteristics for their specific use cases. The analysis
includes both theoretical bounds and empirical validation through extensive benchmarking
across varying matrix dimensions and batch sizes.

Lastly, we make available our software implementation of the proposed protocols, developed
in Rust using the Arkworks library with the BLS12-381 pairing-friendly curve, providing
128-bit security and exceptional memory efficiency. Our implementation incorporates
several optimizations including parallel matrix-to-polynomial conversion, efficient sub-
batching techniques, and optimized pairing operations. For 1024 × 1024 matrices, zkMaP
requires only 24 MB of prover-side RAM, outperforming previous approaches. Moreover,
our sub-batching technique decouples memory complexity from batch size, maintaining
O(bn2 ) memory usage with a configurable sub-batch size parameter b. This approach
yields memory footprints as low as 192 KB per proof, as demonstrated in experiments
with 1,024 batches.

Table 1 provides a comprehensive comparison of zkMaP against existing zero-knowledge
protocols for matrix multiplication, highlighting our protocol’s advantages in proof size,
verification efficiency, and non-interactive design.

Table 1: Comparison of Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Matrix Multiplication of n × n Matrices
                                                 RAM Usage                        Timing
 Protocol                      Proof Size                                                                   Interactivity   Assumptions
                                              Prover    Verifier            Prover             Verifier
 Pinocchio [PHGR16]               O(1)         O(n3 )     O(1)               O(n3 )              O(1)         Non-Int.      q-PKE, q-SDH
 Thaler [Tha13]                  O(log n)      O(n2 )    O(n2 )              O(n2 )             O(n2 )           No         Hash Functions
                                                   2
 LegoSNARK [CFQ19]               O(log n)      O(n )     O(n2 )              O(n2 )             O(n2 )        Non-Int.      q-PKE, q-SDH
 Libra [XZZ+ 19]                O(log2 n)      O(n3 )   O(log n)             O(n3 )            O(log n)       Non-Int.        DLP, Hash
 QuickSilver [YSWW21]             O(n2 )       O(n2 )    O(n2 )              O(n2 )             O(n2 )       Interactive      OLE, Hash
 zkMatrix (single) [CYY24]       O(log n)      O(n2 )   O(log n)             O(n2 )            O(log n)      Interactive        DLP
 zkMatrix (batch, t) [CYY24]    O(t log n)   O(n2 + tn) O(t log n)   O(n2 + tn)E + O(tn2 )M    O(t log n)    Interactive        DLP
 zkMaP (single)                O(1) (320B)    O(n2 )     O(1)‡              O(n2 )M             O(1)E         Non-Int.      q-SDH, AGM
 zkMaP (batch, t)              O(1) (320B)    O(n2 )†    O(1)‡       O(tn2 )M + ⌈ bt ⌉ O(1)E    O(1)E         Non-Int.      q-SDH, AGM
† Sub-batching with fixed size b eliminates t-dependency in memory (e.g., b = 8)
‡ Verifier memory assumes one-time trusted setup parameters are preprocessed
E Exponentiation operations in pairing groups (cost ≈ log
                                                                           2 p multiplications)
M Field multiplications in F
                                    p
Assumptions: q-PKE (q-Power Knowledge of Exponent), q-SDH (q-Strong Diffie-Hellman), DLP
(Discrete Logarithm Problem), OLE (Oblivious Linear Evaluation), Hash (Collision-resistant hash
functions), AGM (Algebraic Group Model)
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                               5


2       Preliminaries
2.1         Notation
Let Fp be a finite field of prime order p ≈ 2λ for security parameter λ. ω ∈ Fp is a primitive
root of unity with ord(ω) ≥ n. Matrices are bold uppercase (e.g., A ∈ Fn×n p  ), vectors bold
lowercase (e.g., v, yL , yR ∈ Fnp ), and scalars standard lowercase. Matrix indices start at
1: aij denotes row i, column j. Matrix multiplication is denoted by · (or ×), and inner
products by ⟨a, b⟩ or a⊤ b. Elliptic curve groups over Fp are denoted G1 , G2 , GT , each
cyclic of prime order p, with bilinear pairing e : G1 × G2 → GT . Group generators are
G1 ∈ G1 and G2 ∈ G2 , with scalar multiplication written as sG. Group operations use
additive notation. Polynomials are denoted P (x), Q(x)∈ Fp [x] with degree deg(P ), and
matrix encodings as PA (x)∈ Fp [x]. Encoded values include Pµ (x), Pay (x), Pby (x)∈ Fp [x],
with W (x)∈ Fp [x] as the witness polynomial. Commitment functions are denoted Com(·),
and polynomial commitments as V = P (s)G∈ G1 . Random sampling from Fp is written
        $
as ρ ← Fp . For n × n matrices, ℓ = max(⌈n/4⌉, 2λ) basis vectors. Challenge scalars
from Fiat-Shamir [FS86] transforms are denoted y, with related vectors yL , yR . Batch
commitments are indicated with superscripts, e.g., V batch . Algorithms are denoted with
calligraphic letters: A (adversary), P (prover), V (verifier), S (simulator), and E (extractor).
Adversarial advantage is AdvA (λ), and negligible functions are negl(λ). Computational
indistinguishability is written as ≈c . Interactions are expressed as ⟨P(w), V⟩(x).

2.2         Cryptographic Building Blocks
To establish the foundation for the KZG polynomial commitment scheme, we formalize
the necessary concepts in elliptic curve cryptography and bilinear pairings, emphasizing
their role in constructing secure and efficient cryptographic protocols.

2.2.1       Elliptic Curves and Pairing-Friendly Groups
Let Fp denote a finite field of prime order p. An elliptic curve E(Fp ) is defined by the
Weierstrass equation y 2 = x3 + ax + b, where a, b ∈ Fp . The set of points on this curve
forms an abelian group under a well-defined addition operation, with the point at infinity
O serving as the identity element. Scalar multiplication, defined as repeated addition,
plays a crucial role in elliptic curve cryptography, whose security relies on the hardness of
the discrete logarithm problem (DLP) in these groups.
Definition 1 (Discrete Logarithm Assumption). Let G be a group generation algorithm
that outputs (G, p, g) where G is a cyclic group of prime order p with generator g. The
discrete logarithm assumption states that for all probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT)
adversaries A:

           Pr (G, p, g) ← G(1λ ); h ← G; a ← A(G, p, g, h) : g a = h ≤ negl(λ).
                                                                   


Pairing-based constructions require special elliptic curves that support efficiently com-
putable bilinear maps. These pairing-friendly curves (e.g., BLS12-381 or BN curves)
operate over subgroups G1 ⊆ E(Fp ), G2 ⊆ E(Fpk ), and a multiplicative target group
GT ⊆ F×pk
          , where k is the embedding degree.
Definition 2 (Bilinear Pairing). A bilinear pairing is a map e : G1 × G2 → GT that
satisfies bilinearity, non-degeneracy, and efficient computability. Bilinearity requires that
for all P ∈ G1 , Q ∈ G2 , and scalars a, b ∈ Zq , it holds that e(aP, bQ) = e(P, Q)ab . Non-
degeneracy ensures that the pairing does not map all nontrivial elements to the identity,
meaning that if P =  ̸ O and Q ≠ O, then e(P, Q) ̸= 1GT . Efficient computability guarantees
6                                     zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


that there exists a polynomial-time algorithm to evaluate e(P, Q) for any valid inputs.
These properties make bilinear pairings fundamental to numerous cryptographic protocols,
including zero-knowledge proofs and polynomial commitment schemes.
                                                                  ̸ G2 and no efficiently
In this work, we use an asymmetric Type-3 pairing setup, where G1 =
computable isomorphisms exist between these groups. This choice provides efficiency and
stronger security properties for our commitment scheme.

2.2.2    Zero-Knowledge Arguments of Knowledge
Zero-knowledge arguments of knowledge (ZK-AoK) enable a prover to convince a verifier
of a statement’s validity without revealing the witness. Our matrix multiplication protocol
uses these arguments to prove knowledge of matrices A and B while preserving their
confidentiality.
Definition 3 (Zero-Knowledge Argument of Knowledge). Let R ⊆ X × W be an NP
relation, where X is the set of statements and W the set of witnesses. A protocol between
a prover P and verifier V is a zero-knowledge argument of knowledge for relation R if:
    1. Completeness: For all (x, w) ∈ R, Pr[⟨P(x, w), V(x)⟩ = accept] = 1.
    2. Knowledge soundness: For every PPT prover P ∗ , there exists a PPT extractor E
       such that for any statement x, Pr[⟨P ∗ (x), V(x)⟩ = accept ∧ (x, w) ∈
                                                                           / R | w ← E(x)] ≤
       negl(λ).
    3. Zero-knowledge: There exists a PPT simulator S such that for all (x, w) ∈ R,
       {ViewV [⟨P(x, w), V(x)⟩]} ≈c {S(x)}, where ViewV represents the verifier’s view of
       the interaction and ≈c denotes computational indistinguishability.
A protocol is succinct if both the proof size and verification time are polynomial in the
security parameter λ and logarithmic in the witness size |w|. Our KZG-based matrix
multiplication protocol achieves succinctness with constant-size proofs and verification
time independent of matrix dimensions.

2.3     The Kate-Zaverucha-Goldberg (KZG) Polynomial Commit-
        ment Scheme
Polynomial commitment schemes enable a prover to commit to a polynomial while allowing
efficient verification of claimed evaluations at specific points. The KZG scheme [KZG10]
provides a significant advancement in this domain by offering constant-sized commitments
and succinct proofs through pairing-based cryptography. Its homomorphic properties sup-
port efficient proof aggregation, making it particularly valuable for verifiable computation,
zero-knowledge proofs, and blockchain applications. In the commit-then-prove paradigm,
KZG allows a prover to bind to a polynomial commitment and later prove statements
about polynomial evaluations without revealing the entire polynomial.

2.3.1    Structured Reference String Setup
The KZG scheme requires a structured reference string (SRS) generated during a trusted
                                      Pd
setup phase. For a polynomial P (x) = i=0 ci xi ∈ Fp [x] of degree d, the setup involves
                            $
selecting a secret scalar s ← Fp and publishing:

                         SRS = {G1 , sG1 , s2 G1 , . . . , sd G1 , G2 , sG2 }            (1)

where G1 ∈ G1 and G2 ∈ G2 are group generators. To mitigate the risks of this "toxic
waste" parameter, multi-party computation ceremonies are typically employed, ensuring
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                              7


security as long as at least one participant remains honest. The SRS enables secure
polynomial evaluation via group encodings: commitments V = P (s)G1 allow verification
of polynomial relations without revealing coefficients, while the bilinear structure supports
efficient proof generation and verification. These encoded polynomials can represent
various data structures including matrices and vectors, which we leverage in our protocol
construction. The security of KZG commitments fundamentally relies on the computational
hardness of the q-Strong Diffie–Hellman (q-SDH) assumption.
Definition 4 (q-Strong Diffie–Hellman Assumption). Let G be a bilinear group generator
that outputs (p, G1 , G2 , GT , e), where p is prime, G1 , G2 , and GT are groups of order p,
and e : G1 × G2 → GT is a non-degenerate bilinear map. The q-Strong Diffie–Hellman
(q-SDH) assumption states that for any PPT adversary A, the following probability is
negligible in the security parameter λ:

                   (p, G1 , G2 , GT , e) ← G(1λ );
                                                                            
                        $
                 G ← G1 ∗ ;
                                                                            
             Pr  1$                                                          ≤ negl(λ)
                                                                             
                 s ← Fp ;                                                   
                   (c, (s + c)−1 G1 ) ← A(G1 , sG1 , s2 G1 , . . . , sq G1 )

In other words, the q-SDH assumption ensures the binding property of KZG commitments:
no adversary, even after observing up to q powers of the secret s, can open a commitment
to two distinct polynomials.

2.3.2   Commitment and Verification
                                                                          Pd
To commit to polynomial P (x)∈ Fp [x], the prover computes VP = P (s)G1 = i=0 ci (si G1 ),
yielding a single group element in G1 regardless of degree d. For a claimed evaluation
P (z) = y, the prover constructs quotient polynomial Q(x) = P (x)−y
                                                              x−z ∈ Fp [x] and computes
proof π = Q(s)G1 . Verification involves checking:

                                              ?
                            e(π, sG2 − zG2 ) = e(VP − yG1 , G2 )                            (2)

This equation holds for honest provers due to bilinearity: e(π, sG2 −zG2 ) = e(G1 , G2 )Q(s)(s−z)
= e(G1 , G2 )P (s)−y = e(VP − yG1 , G2 ). The scheme provides several key properties: (i)
succinctness—constant-sized commitments and proofs; (ii) efficiency—verification requires
only two pairings; (iii) optional hiding—information-theoretic hiding when combined with
randomization; and (iv) binding—distinct polynomials yield distinct commitments under
the q-SDH assumption. These properties make KZG foundational for many succinct proof
systems.


2.4     Proof Aggregation via Homomorphism
KZG commitments possess a valuable homomorphic property that enables efficient aggre-
gation of multiple proofs. For polynomials P (x), Q(x) and scalars α, β, we have:

                        Com(αP + βQ) = α · Com(P ) + β · Com(Q)                             (3)

This property forms the foundation for batch verification, allowing us to combine multiple
matrix multiplication proofs into a single verification equation. In our construction, each
proof instance includes commitments VA,i , VB,i , VC,i to matrix polynomials, alongside a
                                                                                 $
witness πi . To aggregate t such proofs, we derive a random challenge ρ ← Fp via the
8                                       zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


Fiat-Shamir transform and compute:
                                t
                                X                                   t
                                                                    X
                      VAagg =         ρi−1 · VA,i ,       VBagg =         ρi−1 · VB,i ,
                                i=1                                 i=1
                                t                                   t
                                                                                          (4)
                                X                                   X
                      VCagg =         ρi−1 · VC,i ,       π agg =         ρi−1 · πi
                                i=1                                 i=1

                                                                Pt
Similarly, we aggregate evaluation points and values: z agg = i=1 ρi−1 · zi and y agg =
Pt
  i=1 ρ
       i−1
           ·yi . This random linear combination preserves soundness via the Schwartz-Zippel
lemma. The aggregated verification check becomes:

                                                      ?
                      e(π agg , sG2 − z agg G2 ) = e(VCagg − y agg G1 , G2 )              (5)

The correctness of this approach follows from the linearity of commitment and witness
structures. Soundness is guaranteed by the unpredictability of ρ, if any individual proof is
invalid, the aggregated proof fails verification with overwhelming probability. This batching
technique transforms verification complexity from O(t) pairing operations to just O(1),
enabling efficient verification of multiple matrix multiplication relations simultaneously.

2.5    Matrix Polynomial Encodings
Following Wahby et al. [WTS+ 18], we utilize structured polynomial encodings to transform
matrix multiplication verification into polynomial identity checking. For a matrix A ∈ Fn×n
                                                                                        p   ,
we define its polynomial encoding as:
                                        n
                                      n X
                                      X
                         PA (x) =                aij x(i−1)·n+(j−1) ∈ Fp [x]              (6)
                                       i=1 j=1


This encoding establishes a bijection between n × n matrices and polynomials of degree
at most n2 − 1, where each matrix entry corresponds to a unique monomial coefficient.
Evaluation of the polynomial at a point s ∈ Fp requires O(n2 ) operations. By committing
to PA (x) using the KZG scheme, we obtain VA = PA (s)G1 , a single group element
representation of the entire matrix.
The soundness of this approach is founded on the Schwartz-Zippel lemma [Sch80], which
ensures that for distinct polynomials PA (x) and PB (x), the probability they evaluate to
the same value at a random point α ∈ Fp is bounded by:

                                                                    n2 − 1
                                Pr [PA (α) = PB (α)] ≤                                    (7)
                                                                      p

With p ≥ 2λ , this probability becomes negligible in the security parameter λ. This encoding
mechanism forms the algebraic foundation of our protocol, enabling efficient reduction of
matrix relations to polynomial equations while ensuring succinct and verifiable proofs.

2.6    Matrix Multiplication Verification via Inner-Product Reduc-
       tion
Verifying matrix multiplication C = A × B directly requires checking n2 entries, leading
to O(n3 ) complexity. Building on the work of Groth [Gro09] and zkMatrix [CYY24], we
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                                 9


reduce this verification to checking structured polynomial identities through inner-product
decompositions. The key insight is to transform matrix multiplication into an efficient
identity check using carefully constructed challenge vectors:
                                               ⊤                                     ⊤
          yL = 1, y n , y 2n , . . . , y (n−1)n ∈ Fnp , yR = 1, y, y 2 , . . . , y n−1 ∈ Fnp , (8)

where y ∈ Fp is sampled uniformly at random. The specific construction of yL and yR
ensures that each matrix entry contributes a unique monomial degree in the resulting
polynomial, enabling detection of any discrepancy in the matrix multiplication. Using
these vectors, the verification process becomes:
                                         ?
                                  ⊤
                                    CyR = yL ⊤
                                                                                   (9)
                                                     
                                 yL            A · ByR .

When C = A × B, both sides yield identical polynomials in y. Otherwise, they represent
distinct polynomials of degree at most n2 − 1. By the Schwartz-Zippel lemma, the
probability of false acceptance is bounded by (n2 − 1)/p, which is negligible for sufficiently
large p.
This approach achieves succinctness by reducing matrix verification to a single polynomial
identity check, provides soundness through randomized challenges, and integrates seamlessly
with polynomial commitment schemes. While zkMatrix employs Bulletproof-based vector
commitments, our construction utilizes KZG polynomial commitments, offering more
efficient encoding and verification via pairing-based checks. This algebraic structure forms
the foundation of our zkMaP protocol, detailed in Section 4.


3     Problem Formalization
This section provides a comprehensive formalization of the zero-knowledge matrix multi-
plication problem, establishing the formal problem statement, security requirements, and
cryptographic assumptions underlying our protocol. Building upon the foundations from
Section 2, we specify the framework that our zkMaP protocol addresses.

3.1    Formal Problem Definition
Let A, B, C ∈ Fn×n
                 p    be matrices over a finite field Fp , where p is a prime of bitlength λ.
For generality, our formulation extends to rectangular matrices A ∈ Fm×ℓ p  , B ∈ Fℓ×n
                                                                                    p   , and
C ∈ Fp m×n
            where the inner dimensions match for matrix multiplication compatibility. The
goal is to design a zero-knowledge proof protocol that enables a prover P to convince a
verifier V of the correctness of the matrix multiplication relation C = A × B without
revealing any information about the secret matrices A and B beyond the validity of this
relation.
We formalize the matrix multiplication relation through the following NP-language:
                                     ∃ A, B ∈ Fn×n   s.t. C = A × B and
                                                                                 
  RMatMul = (VA , VB , VC ) ∈ G1 3               p
                                     VA = Com(A), VB = Com(B), VC = Com(C)

where Com : Fn×n
               p    → G1 denotes the commitment function instantiated via the KZG
polynomial commitment scheme described in Section 2.3. A zero-knowledge proof system
for RMatMul is defined by PPT algorithms:

                                           Setup(1λ , n) → pp
                                    Prove(pp, A, B, C) → π
                              Verify(pp, VA , VB , VC , π) → {0, 1}
10                                   zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


with formal definitions provided in Section 4.
The proof system demonstrates membership in RMatMul by reducing the verification of
matrix multiplication to efficiently checkable polynomial and inner-product relations,
leveraging the algebraic structure of matrix operations while maintaining cryptographic
security guarantees.

3.2    Security Requirements and Threat Model
A cryptographically sound zero-knowledge proof system for matrix multiplication must
satisfy three fundamental security properties, as established in the foundational work of
Goldreich and Oren [GO94]. Our security analysis addresses both the theoretical guarantees
and practical deployment requirements essential for large-scale matrix multiplication
verification scenarios.
Completeness: An honest prover with valid matrices A, B, C satisfying C = A × B must
always convince an honest verifier. Formally, for all security parameters λ ∈ N, matrix
dimensions n ∈ N, and matrices A, B, C ∈ Fn×np   with C = A × B:

                                      pp ← Setup(1λ , n),
                                                                                

 Pr Verify(pp, VA , VB , VC , π) = 1 VA = Com(A), VB = Com(B), VC = Com(C),  = 1
                                      π ← Prove(pp, A, B, C)

This property requires that our polynomial encoding preserves the algebraic structure
of matrix multiplication and that the commitment scheme maintains proper binding
properties under the specified cryptographic assumptions.
Knowledge Soundness: Any computationally bounded adversary capable of producing a
convincing proof with non-negligible probability must possess extractable knowledge of
matrices A, B, C that satisfy the multiplication relation. Formally, for every probabilis-
tic polynomial-time algebraic adversary A, there exists a probabilistic polynomial-time
extractor E such that:
                                         pp ← Setup(1λ , n),
                                                                                
       Verify(pp, V   , V  , V  , π) = 1
 Pr                A    B    C
                                         (VA , VB , VC , π) ← A(pp),              ≤ negl(λ)
        ∧ (A′ , B′ , C′ ) ∈
                          / RMatMul
                                         (A , B , C ) ← E (pp, VA , VB , VC , π)
                                            ′   ′    ′      A


where E A denotes the extractor with oracle access to A’s algebraic representation. The
extractor leverages the adversary’s computational structure within the Algebraic Group
Model [FKL18], exploiting the fact that all group elements output by A must be expressible
as linear combinations of the structured reference string elements.
Zero-Knowledge: The verification process reveals no information about the private matrices
A and B beyond the validity of C = A × B. This property is formalized through the
existence of a probabilistic polynomial-time simulator S = (S1 , S2 ) such that for all
probabilistic polynomial-time distinguishers D and matrices (A, B, C) ∈ RMatMul :

         |Pr[D(pp, VA , VB , VC , π) = 1] − Pr[D(pp, VA , VB , VC , π ′ ) = 1]| ≤ negl(λ)

where the real distribution involves honest proof generation π ← Prove(pp, A, B, C)
and the ideal distribution uses simulated proofs π ′ ← S2 (τ, VA , VB , VC ) with simulation
trapdoor τ . The protocol achieves special honest-verifier zero-knowledge (SHVZK) in the
interactive setting, and computational zero-knowledge in the non-interactive setting via
the Fiat–Shamir transformation [FS86] in the Random Oracle Model.
Hiding Properties: The privacy of matrix entries is ensured through the computational
hiding property of KZG polynomial commitments, which relies on the discrete logarithm
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                           11


                                                                               Pd
assumption in the underlying bilinear groups. For any polynomial P (x) = i=0 pi xi ,
the commitment VP = P (s)G1 computationally hides the coefficients {pi } under the
discrete logarithm assumption, since extracting these coefficients from VP would require
solving the discrete logarithm problem. Matrix entries remain hidden through commitment
randomness in the polynomial encoding, where each matrix element contributes to multiple
polynomial coefficients, ensuring that no individual entry can be recovered from the
commitment values. The zero-knowledge simulator generates statistically indistinguishable
proof transcripts without access to the secret matrices by sampling random polynomial
coefficients and computing appropriate commitment values, formally establishing that no
information about A and B beyond the validity of the multiplication relation is revealed
during verification.

Beyond cryptographic security, practical deployment requires additional efficiency prop-
erties that distinguish our approach from general-purpose zero-knowledge systems. The
protocol achieves succinctness with constant proof size O(1) independent of matrix dimen-
sion n, enabling efficient verification through exactly two pairing operations regardless of
input size. The prover computation scales as O(n2 ), matching the fundamental cost of
matrix multiplication while providing cryptographic verification guarantees.

Our threat model encompasses malicious provers who may attempt to violate soundness
by convincing verifiers of incorrect matrix multiplication relations, providing inconsistent
commitments that do not correspond to valid matrix multiplications, or deviating arbitrarily
from the protocol specification. We also account for honest-but-curious verifiers who follow
the protocol correctly but may attempt to extract additional information about private
matrices beyond the validity of the relation. The zero-knowledge property ensures that
such attempts yield no additional information.

The security analysis relies on well-established cryptographic assumptions, with the primary
foundation being the q-Strong Diffie-Hellman (q-SDH) assumption [BLS04] with q = n2 − 1.
This assumption ensures the binding property of polynomial commitments [KZG10] and
enables the knowledge extraction techniques essential for establishing soundness. The
knowledge soundness analysis operates in the Algebraic Group Model (AGM), where
adversaries must provide algebraic representations for all group elements they output,
enabling efficient extraction by leveraging the adversary’s computational structure. For
the non-interactive version obtained via Fiat-Shamir transformation, security additionally
relies on modeling the hash function H : {0, 1}∗ → Fp as a random oracle, ensuring collision
resistance and unpredictability of verification challenges.

Additional structural requirements include field size constraints where the prime p satisfies
p ≥ 2λ to ensure negligible error probabilities in Schwartz-Zippel-based polynomial identity
arguments, structured reference string support for polynomials of degree up to n2 − 1 to
accommodate the matrix encoding scheme, and underlying bilinear group instantiations
that provide λ bits of security against best-known discrete logarithm attacks. The trusted
setup phase assumes honest generation of the structured reference string with secure
deletion of the secret trapdoor, achievable in practice through multi-party computation
ceremonies [BGM17] where security is maintained as long as at least one participant acts
honestly. This security framework strikes a balance between theoretical rigor and practical
efficiency, offering robust cryptographic guarantees while preserving the performance
characteristics necessary for large-scale matrix multiplication verification scenarios. The
formal security analysis with complete definitions, theorems, and proofs is provided in
Section 5.
12                                  zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


4       zkMaP Protocol Specification
In this section, we present our Zero-Knowledge Matrix Product (zkMaP) protocol, which
enables a prover to demonstrate that C = A × B for matrices defined over a finite field Fp ,
while keeping both input matrices A and B private. Building upon the KZG polynomial
commitment scheme described in Section 2.3, we detail the polynomial encoding of matrices,
proof generation, and verification procedures.

4.1      Polynomial Encoding and Trusted Setup
We encode matrices as univariate polynomials to leverage the properties of KZG com-
mitments. While our construction naturally extends to non-square matrices A ∈ Fm×ℓ  p
and B ∈ Fℓ×n
         p   yielding  C  ∈ Fm×n
                             p   , we focus on square matrices for clarity. For a matrix
M ∈ Fn×n
     p   , we define its polynomial encoding as:
                                         n
                                       n X
                                       X
                            PM (x) =             mij x(i−1)n+(j−1) .
                                       i=1 j=1

This encoding creates a bijection between n × n matrices and polynomials of degree at
most n2 − 1. Crucially, it also preserves matrix multiplication under appropriate degree
truncation.
Theorem 1 (Matrix Embedding Correctness and Soundness). Let A, B, C ∈ Fn×n
                                                                       p   with
polynomial encodings PA (x), PB (x), and PC (x) defined by
                                        n−1
                                        X n−1
                                            X
                             PM (x) =             mi+1,j+1 xin+j .
                                        i=0 j=0

Then:
     1. Bijectivity: The mapping ϕ : M 7→ PM (x) is a bijection between Fn×n
                                                                         p   and the set
        of polynomials of degree at most n2 − 1 over Fp .
     2. Multiplication Preservation: If C = A × B, then PC (x) = PA×B (x).
                                             $                                 2
     3. Soundness: For C ̸= A × B and s ← Fp , Pr [PC (s) = PA×B (s)] ≤ n p−1 .

Proof. We prove the correctness and soundness of the matrix embedding by addressing
each claim in turn. The proof is organized as follows:

1. Bijectivity: First, we show that the encoding function ϕ : Fn×n
                                                                p  → Fp [x] is a bijection.
Specifically, we prove that ϕ is both injective and surjective.
Injectivity: Suppose that ϕ(M1 ) = ϕ(M2 ) for two matrices M1 , M2 ∈ Fn×n   p   . This implies
that their polynomial encodings are identical, i.e., PM1 (x) = PM2 (x). Since the encoding
maps each matrix entry mi+1,j+1 to a unique monomial xin+j , matching the coefficients
of the corresponding powers of x leads to the conclusion that M1 = M2 .
                                                Pn2 −1
Surjectivity: Given any polynomial Q(x) = k=0 qk xk over Fp , we can define a matrix
Q ∈ Fn×n
       p    where the entry at position (i, j) is qin+j . This shows that every polynomial of
degree at most n2 − 1 is the encoding of some matrix, thus proving that ϕ is surjective.

2. Multiplication Preservation: Now, we prove that the matrix multiplication operation
is preserved under the encoding. Suppose that C = A × B for matrices A, B, C ∈ Fn×n
                                                                                  p   .
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                                      13


The polynomial encoding of C is given by:
                                          n−1     n
                                                                        !
                                          X       X
                           PC (x) =                     ai+1,k bk,j+1       xin+j .
                                          i,j=0   k=1

By rearranging the sums, we observe that this is equivalent to:

                              n   n−1
                                                ! n−1            
                             X    X                 X
                    PC (x) =          ai+1,k xin       bk,j+1 xj  ,
                                    k=1     i=0                    j=0


which is exactly PA×B (x). Thus, we have shown that the polynomial encoding of C
matches the encoding of the matrix product A × B.

3. Soundness: Finally, we establish the soundness of the matrix embedding. Suppose
that C ̸= A × B. Then, the difference between the polynomials PC (x) and PA×B (x)
is a non-zero polynomial of degree at most n2 − 1. By the Schwartz-Zippel lemma, the
probability that these polynomials are equal at a random point s ∈ Fp is bounded by:

                                                                    n2 − 1
                                Pr [PC (s) = PA×B (s)] ≤                   .
                                $
                             s←Fp
                                                                      p

Thus, the soundness of the matrix embedding follows, and this completes the proof of
Theorem 1.

Our encoding naturally generalizes to non-square matrices. For A ∈ Fm×ℓ
                                                                    p   and B ∈ Fℓ×n
                                                                                 p   ,
we define:
                      m−1
                      XX  ℓ−1                                        ℓ−1 n−1
                                                                     X   X
           PA (x) =             ai+1,j+1 · xiℓ+j ,        PB (x) =               bi+1,j+1 · xin+j
                      i=0 j=0                                        i=0 j=0


The multiplication preservation property extends naturally, with prover cost O(mℓ + ℓn)
and verification remaining constant.
For example, consider matrices A ∈ F2×3
                                    p   and B ∈ F3×2
                                                 p   with entries:
                                                                                  
                                                                b11          b12
                            a11            a12    a13
                        A=                            ,      B = b21          b22 
                            a21            a22    a23
                                                                  b31          b32

The polynomial encodings become:

                  PA (x) = a11 + a12 x + a13 x2 + a21 x3 + a22 x4 + a23 x5
                  PB (x) = b11 + b12 x + b21 x2 + b22 x3 + b31 x4 + b32 x5

For C = AB ∈ F2×2
              p   , the encoding satisfies PC (x) ≡ PA (x) · PB (x) (mod x4 ).
To support these polynomial operations, the zkMaP protocol requires a KZG structured
reference string (SRS) with sufficient powers to handle matrices of dimension n×n. For non-
square matrices, the SRS must support polynomials of degree up to max(mℓ, ℓn, mn) − 1.
Specifically, the SRS must support polynomials of degree up to n2 − 1:
                                                               2
                       SRS = {G1 , sG1 , s2 G1 , . . . , sn −1 G1 , G2 , sG2 },                     (10)
14                                        zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


where s is the secret value generated during the trusted setup process described in
Section 2.3. The KZG commitment scheme ensures that commitments to polynomials of
this form are binding under standard cryptographic assumptions.
Using these encodings and the KZG commitment scheme, the prover commits to matrices
A, B, and C as:

                     VA = PA (s)G1 ,          VB = PB (s)G1 ,         VC = PC (s)G1 .               (11)

These polynomial-based commitments, combined with the inner-product reduction tech-
nique described in Section 2.6, form the basis of our succinct zero-knowledge protocol.

4.2    Non-Interactive Proof Generation
To transform the interactive protocol into a non-interactive zero-knowledge proof, we apply
the Fiat–Shamir heuristic [FS86]. The prover first computes commitments VA , VB , and
VC for matrices A, B, and C as defined in Section 4. A challenge value y ∈ Fp is derived
by applying a cryptographic hash function to all public parameters and commitments:

                                 y = H(pp ∥ VA ∥ VB ∥ VC ) mod p,                                   (12)

where pp denotes public parameters including matrix dimensions and SRS description.
The prover then constructs structured vectors based on the challenge:

               yL = (1, y n , y 2n , . . . , y (n−1)n )⊤ ,   yR = (1, y, y 2 , . . . , y n−1 )⊤ .   (13)

These vectors ensure each matrix entry is multiplied by a unique power of y, preventing
coefficient collisions during aggregation.
The prover computes the projections:

                             ay = yL
                                   ⊤
                                     A,         by = ByR ,        µ = yL
                                                                       ⊤
                                                                         CyR

Note that µ = ay · by holds iff C = A × B. The prover encodes these as polynomials and
computes commitments:

                    Vay = Pay (s)G1 ,         Vby = Pby (s)G1 ,         Vµ = Pµ (s)G1

Finally, the prover computes the witness polynomial and its commitment:
                                 Pµ (x) − Pay (x) · Pby (x)
                     W (x) =                                ,         VW = W (s)G1 .                (14)
                                          x−y

The proof π consists of the commitments (VA , VB , VC , Vay , Vby , Vµ , VW ).

4.3    Matrix Compression
While our polynomial embedding elegantly captures matrix structure, direct application
faces scalability challenges: committing to an n × n matrix requires degree-(n2 − 1)
polynomials and correspondingly large structured reference strings with O(n2 ) group
elements. For practical matrices of dimension n = 1024, this translates to over one million
SRS elements, making the approach prohibitively expensive. Our compression strategy
employs Vandermonde matrix structure to create a compact, collision-resistant projection
that reduces the effective polynomial degree from O(n2 ) to O(ℓn) where ℓ = max ⌈n/4⌉, 2λ ,
                                                                                          

preserving soundness with collision probability < 2−λ while enabling practical efficiency.
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                                   15


For security parameter λ and prime p > 22λ n, we uniformly sample ω ∈ F×  p such that ω
has multiplicative order at least n, generating a subgroup of size ≥ n. The compressed
representation M(comp) = Φ(M) ∈ Fℓ×np   (where M denotes any input matrix) is constructed
by evaluating column polynomials atPcarefully chosen evaluation points. For each column
                                       n−1
j, we form the polynomial fj (X) = k=0 M[k, j]X k and evaluate it at powers of ω:
                                                                                     ⊤
                        M(comp) [·, j] = fj (ω 0 ), fj (ω 1 ), . . . , fj (ω ℓ−1 )               (15)

                       i=0 with vi [j] = ω
The basis vectors {vi }ℓ−1                 ij
                                              form a Vandermonde structure that ensures
column-wise polynomial evaluation at powers of ω.
The security of this compression relies on the fundamental property that distinct column
polynomials can collide at the evaluation points only if their difference vanishes at all these
points simultaneously. This leads to the following collision resistance guarantee:


Lemma 1 (Compression Collision Resistance). For distinct matrices M1 , M2 ∈ Fn×n
                                                                             p   and
uniformly sampled ω of order ≥ n:
                                                                n
                                Pr [Φ(M1 ) = Φ(M2 )] ≤            < 2−2λ
                                 ω                              p

Proof. Since M1 ̸= M2 , there exists at least one column j ∗ where the matrices differ. The
                                 (1)          (2)
difference polynomial h(X) = fj ∗ (X) − fj ∗ (X) is non-zero with degree at most n − 1. For
a collision to occur, we need h(ω i ) = 0 for all i ∈ {0, 1, . . . , ℓ − 1}. Since h has at most n − 1
                 i=0 are distinct, the probability is bounded by n/p per Schwartz-Zippel.
roots and {ω i }ℓ−1
Under our parameter choice p > 22λ n, this probability is bounded by 2−2λ .

The computational efficiency emerges from exploiting polynomial evaluation at roots of
unity. When ω has order N = 2k ≥ n, each column compression requires computing ℓ
                       i=0 using a truncated Number-Theoretic Transform (NTT). The key
evaluations {fj (ω i )}ℓ−1
insight is that evaluating fj (X) at the geometric sequence {1, ω, ω 2 , . . . , ω ℓ−1 } corresponds
to computing the first ℓ coefficients of the discrete Fourier transform, achievable via radix-2
algorithms in O(n log n) operations per column. This reduces total complexity from O(n3 )
to O(n2 log n)—for n = 1024, this achieves over 100× speedup versus naive computation.
For KZG integration, the compressed matrix M(comp) ∈ Fℓ×n       p    can be represented as a
                                     Pℓ−1 Pn−1
bivariate polynomial F (X, Y ) =       i=0   j=0 M (comp) [i, j]X i j
                                                                   Y  . Since standard KZG
commitments apply only to univariate
                                  Pn−1    polynomials, we   use  a two-step construction: for
each row i, we define Fi (Y ) = j=0 M(comp) [i, j]Y j and commit using an SRS of size
n, obtaining Vi = Fi (s)G1 . These row commitments serve as coefficients of G(X) =
Pℓ−1
   i=0 Vi X , producing the final commitment Vouter = F (s, s)G1 . This approach reduces
           i

the SRS size from O(n2 ) to O(max(n, ℓ)) = O(n) group elements while maintaining collision
probability below 2−128 for λ = 128. For concrete parameters with n = 1024, this reduces
the SRS from 1, 048, 576 to 1, 024 elements—a 99.9% reduction. The compression integrates
transparently with the zkMaP protocol by operating on polynomial representations while
preserving all verification properties, with the verifier remaining unaware of whether
compression was used.

4.4     Verification
The verifier validates matrix multiplication claims through constant-time pairing oper-
ations derived from KZG commitments. Verification requires two phases: Challenge
16                                   zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


Reconstruction: The verifier reconstructs the Fiat-Shamir challenge as:

                              y = H(pp ∥ VA ∥ VB ∥ VC ) mod p

where pp denotes public parameters. This ensures non-interactive soundness in the random
oracle model.
                                                               ?
Pairing Verification: The verifier checks: e(VW , sG2 −yG2 ) = e(Vµ −Pay (y)·Pby (y)G1 , G2 )
                                                    ?
Equivalently via bilinearity: e(VW , sG2 − yG2 ) = e(Vµ − Vay · Vby , G2 ) This verifies the
                              Pµ (x)−Pay (x)·Pby (x)
witness polynomial W (x) =            x−y            encodes correct relationships. Correctness:
For honest provers:

                e(VW , sG2 − yG2 )= e(W (s)G1 , sG2 − yG2 )
                                      Pµ (s) − Pay (s)Pby (s)
                                  = e(                        G1 , sG2 − yG2 )
                                               s−y
                                  = e((Pµ (s) − Pay (s)Pby (s))G1 , G2 )
                                  = e(Vµ − Vay · Vby , G2 )

Security: If C ̸= A × B, Schwartz-Zippel bounds failure probability:
                                                      deg
                        Pr Pµ (y) = Pay (y) · Pby (y) ≤    < 2−128
                          
                                                        p

Soundness reduces to q-SDH under AGM. Verification completes in constant time (≈ 3.6ms)
regardless of matrix size. Acceptance confirms C = A×B at the polynomial level, revealing
no matrix entries. For a complete algorithmic description of the zkMaP protocol, see
Algorithm 2.


5      Security Analysis
In this section, we present a comprehensive security analysis of zkMaP, establishing its
security properties under the q-Strong Diffie–Hellman (q-SDH) assumption in the Algebraic
Group Model (AGM) and Random Oracle Model (ROM). We provide explicit formalization
of AGM extraction procedures, establish zero-knowledge guarantees across different inter-
action models, and demonstrate the relationship between our layered soundness theorems.
We prove that zkMaP achieves perfect completeness, computational knowledge soundness,
and zero-knowledge properties, making it a secure zero-knowledge proof system for matrix
multiplication.

5.1      Security Model and Definitions
We establish formal definitions for zkMaP’s security properties:
Definition 5 (Secure Zero-Knowledge Proof System). A zero-knowledge proof system for
relation R is secure if it satisfies:
     • Perfect Completeness: For any (x, w) ∈ R, an honest prover P convinces verifier V
       with probability 1.
     • Computational Knowledge Soundness: For any PPT adversary A, there exists extrac-
       tor E such that if A produces acceptable proof for x, then E extracts valid witness w
       with (x, w) ∈ R, except with negligible probability.
     • Zero-Knowledge: The proof reveals no information about w beyond x ∈ LR . We
       distinguish:
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                          17


         – Special Honest-Verifier ZK (SHVZK): Holds against honest verifiers using
           random challenges
         – Computational ZK in ROM : Achieved via Fiat-Shamir against malicious verifiers



5.2     Layered Soundness Architecture
Our security analysis adopts a modular three-tier architecture, consistent with established
methodologies in polynomial commitment-based zero-knowledge systems. This reflects
the decomposition strategies of Sonic [MBKM19] (polynomial evaluation soundness before
knowledge extraction), PLONK [GWC19] (permutation argument soundness before circuit
satisfiability), and Marlin [CHM+ 20] (coefficient constraint soundness prior to global
protocol soundness). The zkMaP hierarchy comprises: (i) polynomial commitment binding
(Theorem 2), establishing that KZG commitments are computationally binding under
q-SDH; (ii) witness polynomial soundness (Theorem 3), guaranteeing that accepting proofs
satisfy PC (s) = PA (s)PB (s); and (iii) knowledge soundness (Theorem 4), which constructs
an AGM extractor using this consistency property.
This separation is technically essential for maintaining tight reductions. Theorem 3 ensures
that, for any accepting proof, the difference polynomial Q(x) = PC (x) − PA (x)PB (x)
vanishes at the trapdoor point s, enabling the factorization Q(x) = (x − s)R(x) used to
extract a q-SDH solution in Theorem 4. This extraction-independent invariant avoids
entangling polynomial consistency with the extraction procedure, preserving adversarial
advantage ϵ and runtime O(T )—as opposed to the quadratic degradation (ϵ′ = ϵ/poly(n))
that would result from a monolithic soundness proof. The modular structure improves
clarity, supports independent verification of each layer, and follows best practices for
composable cryptographic proofs.



5.3     Core Security Theorems
We now present the formal security theorems that establish zkMaP’s cryptographic guar-
antees. The theorems are organized according to their dependency relationships, with each
building upon the security properties established by its predecessors.
Theorem 2 (Polynomial Commitment Binding). Under the q-Strong Diffie–Hellman
(q-SDH) assumption, the polynomial commitments VA , VB , VC in the zkMaP protocol are
computationally binding. Formally, for any PPT adversary A, the probability that A breaks
the binding property is negligible:

                        SRS ← Setup(1λ , q),
                                                       

                   Pr (V, P1 , P2 ) ← A(SRS) :          ≤ negl(λ),
                                                       

                          V = P1 (s)G1 = P2 (s)G1 ∧ P1 ̸= P2

where SRS = (G1 , sG1 , . . . , sq G1 , G2 , sG2 ) and deg(P1 ), deg(P2 ) ≤ q.
The binding property of polynomial commitments forms the foundation of our security
analysis, ensuring that adversaries cannot equivocate about committed polynomials. This
property is essential for the soundness of all subsequent reductions.
Theorem 3 (Witness Polynomial Soundness). Let λ be a security parameter and q ∈ N.
Assume the q-Strong Diffie–Hellman (q-SDH) assumption holds in the bilinear group setting.
Then, the witness polynomial construction in the zkMaP protocol satisfies computational
18                                      zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


soundness. Specifically, for any probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) adversary A, the
probability that A produces a valid proof for an incorrect matrix multiplication is negligible:

                     SRS ← Setup(1λ , q);
                                                               

                 Pr (A, B, C, π̃) ← A(SRS) :                    ≤ negl(λ),
                                                               

                       Verify(SRS, A, B, C, π̃) = 1 ∧ C ̸= A × B

where π̃ = (Vay , Vby , Vµ , VW ) is a forged proof tuple, and SRS = G1 , sG1 , . . . , sq G1 , G2 , sG2
                                                                                                           
                                                      $
is the structured reference string with secret s ← Fp .
Witness Polynomial Soundness serves as the crucial intermediate step that bridges the gap
between commitment binding and full protocol soundness. This theorem guarantees that
any proof accepted by the verifier must satisfy the polynomial relationship at the secret
evaluation point, regardless of whether a valid witness can be extracted.
The proofs of Theorems 2 and 3 establish the foundational security properties required
for our main result and are provided in Appendices A and B, respectively. Building upon
these results, we now prove the complete security of the zkMaP protocol.
Theorem 4 (Completeness and Computational Knowledge Soundness of zkMaP). The
zkMaP protocol satisfies:
     1. Perfect Completeness: For honest prover P and verifier V, if C = A × B, then
        Pr[⟨P, V⟩ = accept] = 1.
     2. Computational Knowledge Soundness: Under the q-SDH assumption in the AGM
        and ROM, for any PPT adversary A, there exists an extractor E such that:

                               SRS ← Setup(1λ , n2 − 1);
                                                                  
                              (V , V , V , π) ← A(SRS);           
                               A B C                              
                           Pr 
                                                                  
                              accept ←  V(SRS, V A , VB , VC , π); ≤ negl(λ).
                                                                   
                              (A, B, C) ← E (SRS) :
                                             A
                                                                  
                                                                   
                                C ̸= A × B



Proof. Perfect Completeness: Let A, B, C ∈ Fn×n p   be matrices with C = A × B. Their
polynomial encodings satisfy PC (x) = PA×B (x) by Theorem 2. The KZG commitments
VA , VB , VC inherit perfect completeness when using an SRS of degree d ≥ n2 − 1.
Given Fiat-Shamir challenge y ← H(VA ∥ VB ) mod p in the random oracle model, the
projections ay = yL⊤
                     A and by = ByR satisfy µ = ay · by by matrix algebra. The witness
polynomial given in Equation 14 has degree ≤ n2 − 2, supported by the SRS in Equation 10.
Verification reduces to:

                    e(VW , sG2 − yG2 ) = e((s − y)W (s)G1 , G2 )
                                          = e((Pµ (s) − Pay (s)Pby (s))G1 , G2 )
                                          = e(Vµ − Vay · Vby , G2 )

Thus, the verification equation holds identically when C = A × B, proving perfect
completeness.
Computational Knowledge Soundness: In the Algebraic Group Model (AGM), any PPT
adversary A outputs group elements as linear combinations of SRS generators: In the
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                                   19


Algebraic Group Model (AGM), any PPT adversary A outputs group elements as linear
combinations of SRS generators:
                      d
                      X                           d
                                                  X                           d
                                                                              X
               VA =         ai (si G1 ),   VB =         bi (si G1 ),   VC =         ci (si G1 )
                      i=0                         i=0                         i=0

where d = n2 − 1. Our extractor E (detailed in Algorithm 1) solves for coefficient vectors
{ai }, {bi }, {ci } via Gaussian elimination over Fp , then reconstructs matrices A, B, C via
Theorem 1’s bijective encoding. By Witness Polynomial Soundness (Theorem 3), if
verification passes but C ̸= A × B, then the polynomial Q(x) = PC (x) − PA (x)PB (x)
satisfies Q(s) = 0 despite being nonzero. This forces the factorization Q(x) = (x − s)R(x),
enabling E to compute:
                                        1         W (s)
                                            G1 =         G1
                                       s−y        Q(y)
thereby solving the (n2 − 1)-SDH problem, contradicting its assumed hardness. By the
General Forking Lemma [BN06], if A succeeds with probability ϵ, then E extracts a valid
witness with probability at least ϵ2 − negl(λ). By the Schwartz-Zippel lemma [Sch80], the
probability of Q(x) vanishing at a random point is at most (2n2 − 2)/p, which is negligible
for cryptographically large p.


Algorithm 1 AGM Extractor for zkMaP

Require: Adversary A, SRS = {si G1 }di=0 ∪ {G2 , sG2 } with d = n2 − 1
Ensure: Extracted matrices (A, B, C) or q-SDH solution
 1: (VA , VB , VC , π) ← A(SRS)                                       ▷ π = (Vay , Vby , Vµ , VW )
                     Pd
 2: Express VA =        i=0 ai (s G1 )
                                 i
                                                                    ▷ Analogously for VB , VC
 3: Solve linear system for {ai }, {bi }, {ci } via Gaussian elimination over Fp
                                      Pd
 4: Reconstruct A via PA (x) =         k=0 ak x
                                                k
                                                                          ▷ Bijective encoding
 5: Reconstruct B, C similarly from {bi }, {ci }
 6: if C ̸= AB then
 7:    Compute Q(x) = PC (x) − PA (x)PB (x)
 8:    Factor Q(x) = (x − s)R(x) using Q(s) = 0                                    ▷ By Thm 3
 9:    Compute y ← H(VA ∥ VB ) mod p                                  ▷ Fiat-Shamir challenge
10:    Compute σ ← (Q(y))−1 · VW                                          ▷ Yields σ = s−y  1
                                                                                               G1
11:    return (y, σ) as q-SDH solution
12: else
13:    return (A, B, C)
14: end if




5.4    Algebraic Group Model Extraction
The computational knowledge soundness proof relies fundamentally on our ability to
extract witnesses from successful adversaries in the Algebraic Group Model. In the AGM,
all adversarial group elements must be algebraic combinations of the structured reference
string (SRS). The zkMaP extractor leverages this to recover committed polynomials by
solving a linear system over the SRS basis. Using standard techniques such as Gaussian
elimination, the extractor reconstructs coefficient vectors for PA (x), PB (x), and PC (x),
and decodes the corresponding matrices via the bijective encoding. If C = AB, a valid
witness is returned. Otherwise, the difference polynomial Q(x) = PC (x) − PA (x)PB (x) is
20                                     zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


nonzero and vanishes at s, enabling the factorization Q(x) = (x − s)R(x). This enables
computation of s−y
                 1
                   G1 from the committed witness polynomial, yielding a solution to the
q-SDH problem. Algorithm 1 provides the complete extraction procedure with explicit
steps for both witness recovery and q-SDH solution derivation. This extraction strategy
follows the AGM framework of [FKL18] and avoids reliance on the trapdoor s, ensuring
that knowledge soundness holds without requiring simulation trapdoors.

5.5      Zero-Knowledge Guarantees
Having established the soundness properties of zkMaP, we now turn to its zero-knowledge
guarantees. The protocol achieves different levels of zero-knowledge depending on the
interaction model, with perfect guarantees in the interactive setting and computational
guarantees after applying the Fiat-Shamir transformation.

Theorem 5 (Zero-Knowledge Property of zkMaP). The zkMaP protocol satisfies perfect
special honest verifier zero-knowledge (SHVZK) in the interactive setting under the q-SDH
assumption. After applying the Fiat-Shamir transformation, it achieves computational
zero-knowledge in the Random Oracle Model. For any verifier challenge y ∈ Fp , there exists
a probabilistic polynomial-time simulator S which, given only the public inputs (VA , VB , VC )
and y, outputs a transcript statistically indistinguishable from a real protocol execution.


Proof. Perfect SHVZK (Interactive Setting): We construct simulator SSHVZK that on
input public commitments (VA , VB , VC ) and challenge y:
                         $
     1. Samples ra , rb ← Fnp and defines projection polynomials:

                                            n−1
                                            X                              n−1
                                                                           X
                               P̃ay (x) =         ra,i xi ,   P̃by (x) =         rb,i xi
                                            i=0                            i=0



                                                    $
     2. Samples random polynomial W̃ (x) ← Fp [x] with deg ≤ 2n − 3

     3. Computes KZG commitments: Ṽay = P̃ay (s)G1 ,               Ṽby = P̃by (s)G1 ,    ṼW = W̃ (s)G1

     4. Sets Ṽµ = Ṽay · Ṽby + (s − y)ṼW

The transcript (Ṽay , Ṽby , Ṽµ , ṼW ) has identical distribution to real executions due to
uniform polynomial coefficients and KZG’s perfect hiding property. The simulator requires
no witness or SRS trapdoor, establishing perfect SHVZK.

Computational ZK (Non-Interactive ROM): Following the Fiat-Shamir transformation [FS86]
in the random oracle model [BR93], the simulator SROM :
                                                         $
     1. Programs H(VA ∥ VB ∥ VC ) → y for y ← Fp

     2. Generates π ← SSHVZK (VA , VB , VC , y)

     3. Maintains consistent random oracle responses

This achieves computational zero-knowledge against malicious verifiers under the random
oracle assumption, without requiring SRS trapdoor access. This contrasts with trapdoor-
dependent protocols like Groth16.
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                             21


5.6    Security Summary and Comparisons
The security analysis establishes that zkMaP achieves distinct zero-knowledge guarantees
across interaction models. In interactive settings, the protocol provides perfect special
honest-verifier zero-knowledge (SHVZK) through trapdoor-independent simulation: the
simulator generates statistically indistinguishable transcripts without requiring SRS trap-
door access. For non-interactive setting via the Fiat-Shamir transformation [FS86] in the
Random Oracle Model (ROM) [BR93], zkMaP achieves computational zero-knowledge
against malicious verifiers. Here, the simulator programs the random oracle to ensure
consistent challenge generation, with the perfect guarantee transitioning to computational
due to hash function programmability requirements in ROM. Collectively, our theorems
demonstrate that zkMaP satisfies the essential properties of a secure zero-knowledge
proof system: perfect completeness where valid statements with honest proofs verify with
probability 1, computational knowledge soundness enabling efficient witness extraction
under q-SDH in AGM+ROM, and zero-knowledge providing perfect SHVZK interactively
with computational ZK via Fiat-Shamir in ROM. These properties establish zkMaP as a
cryptographically sound solution for privacy-preserving matrix multiplication verification.
Trusted Setup and Trapdoor Management: zkMaP’s security model fundamentally differs
from trapdoor-dependent protocols like Groth16. During trusted setup, trapdoor s ∈
                                                                  2
Fp is generated via secure ceremony to compute SRS = {si G1 }ni=0−1 ∪ {G2 , sG2 }, then
immediately cryptographically erased. During operation, zero-knowledge simulators require
no trapdoor access, relying instead on commitment randomness for interactive SHVZK
and ROM programmability for non-interactive settings. The universal SRS supports
multiple instances without per-execution setup, eliminating ongoing trapdoor trust while
maintaining security.
Comparative Security Advantages: zkMaP provides distinctive security advantages over
existing ZK protocols. Unlike Groth16’s per-circuit trusted setup [Gro16], zkMaP employs
a universal setup under the q-SDH assumption with AGM analysis. Compared to zkMa-
trix [CYY24], zkMaP leverages q-SDH and AGM foundations rather than RSA assumptions,
providing explicit extraction procedures with concrete security guarantees. Relative to
QuickSilver [YSWW21], our protocol operates in bilinear groups under structured assump-
tions while maintaining constant-size proofs, offering different security-efficiency trade-offs
suitable for matrix-specific applications.
The protocol’s layered soundness architecture enables compositional security proofs while
avoiding circuit overhead through matrix-specific optimizations. While achieving SHVZK
in interactive settings, the Fiat-Shamir transformation yields computational ZK security
comparable to state-of-the-art systems, establishing zkMaP as a robust and practically
viable solution for zero-knowledge matrix multiplication.

6     Batch Verification
The zkMaP protocol is designed to support the simultaneous verification of multiple
matrix multiplication proofs while preserving its zero-knowledge properties. To achieve
this, our scheme employs a batching mechanism that aggregates individual proofs into a
single, compact proof. This design not only reduces the communication and computational
overhead associated with verifying each instance separately but also maintains the algebraic
structure required for sound verification.
For a collection of t matrix multiplication instances {(Ai , Bi , Ci )}ti=1 with Ci = Ai × Bi ,
each instance is first processed individually. The matrices are encoded into polynomials
and committed using KZG commitments, yielding commitments VAi , VBi , and VCi for
each instance. Furthermore, for each individual proof, a witness polynomial is constructed
22                                         zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


and committed to, resulting in witness commitments VWi .
To aggregate these proofs, our protocol employs a standard random linear combination
technique. A random scalar ρ is sampled uniformly from Fp ; such a choice is a well-
established practice in the literature (e.g., in batch verification schemes for SNARKs and
polynomial commitment protocols) as it prevents an adversary from crafting false proofs
that cancel out in the aggregation. Since the probability of sampling zero challenges is
negligible (1/p ≈ 2−256 ), the protocol rejects this case and resamples to ensure well-defined
witness polynomials. The individual commitments are then aggregated via weighted sums:

                       t
                       X                              t
                                                      X                              t
                                                                                     X
           VAbatch =         ρi−1 VAi ,   VBbatch =         ρi−1 VBi ,   VCbatch =         ρi−1 VCi .
                       i=1                            i=1                            i=1
                                                                                     Pt
Similarly, the batch witness commitment is computed as: VW
                                                         batch
                                                               =                       i=1 ρ
                                                                                               i−1
                                                                                                     V Wi .
The use of the powers of ρ ensures that the contributions of the individual proofs remain
distinct in the aggregate, preserving the necessary polynomial relationships for sound
verification. After the commitments have been aggregated, the final verification is performed
by checking a pairing equation:
                                                               −1                −1
         batch
      e VW     , sG2 − y batch G2 = e VCbatch , G2 · e VAbatch , G2    · e VBbatch , G2


where the challenge y batch is obtained by similarly aggregating the individual challenges
yi from each proof. The pairing check is executed using the ate pairing, and thanks
to optimized multi-pairing techniques, the effective cost is reduced to only two pairing
computations, regardless of the number of batched instances.
The security of the batch scheme is underpinned by the randomness of ρ, which guarantees
that any adversarial attempt to forge or cancel out individual proofs is detected with high
probability. Specifically, the probability of an invalid proof being accepted is bounded by
p , where d is the maximum degree of the underlying polynomials and p is the field size.
d

This bound is standard in polynomial commitment schemes and ensures that the overall
batch verification remains both efficient and secure.
Theorem 6 (Batch zkMaP Protocol). Let (Ai , Bi , Ci ) for i ∈ [1, t] be matrix multiplication
instances over Fn×n
                p   . The batch zero-knowledge matrix product (zkMaP) protocol satisfies:
     1. Perfect Completeness: If Ci = Ai × Bi for all i, then the verifier always accepts.
     2. Computational Zero-Knowledge in ROM: There exists a PPT simulator produc-
        ing proofs computationally indistinguishable from honest ones in the random oracle
        model
     3. Computational Soundness: If a malicious prover produces an accepting proof
        where ∃j such that Cj ̸= Aj × Bj , the q-SDH assumption can be broken.
A proof of this theorem is provided in Appendix C, building on the AGM extraction
framework (Algorithm 1) and zero-knowledge simulation strategies established in Section
5.
For further implementation details and a complete procedural description, refer to Algo-
rithm 3, which outlines the steps for setting up the SRS, generating individual proofs,
aggregating commitments via the random challenge ρ, and performing the batch verifica-
tion.
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                                  23


7     Complexity Analysis of the zkMaP Protocol
7.1    Computational Complexity
We analyze the computational complexity of the zkMaP protocol for verifying the relation
C = A × B in zero-knowledge, where A, B, C ∈ Fn×n        p   . We assume standard costs:
field multiplication Cmul , field addition Cadd , exponentiation in the group Cexp , pairing
evaluation Cpair , hashing for Fiat-Shamir instantiation Chash , and small-exponent powering
Cpow .

Setup Complexity: The trusted setup generates the structured reference string (SRS).
                                                                   2
For uncompressed matrices, we require SRS = {G1 , sG1 , . . . , sn −1 G1 , G2 , sG2 }, cost-
ing (n2 + 1) · Cexp . With Vandermonde compression (Section 4.3), the SRS reduces to
O(max(n, ℓ)) elements where ℓ = max(⌈n/4⌉, 2λ), substantially reducing setup costs for
large matrices. Committing to matrices A, B, C requires encoding them into polynomials
and evaluating at point s, costing 3n2 (Cmul + Cadd ) + 3n2 · Cexp for the uncompressed
case. With compression, this reduces to O(ℓn) operations per matrix. Thus, the setup
phase totals:
                     TSetup = (n2 + 1)Cexp + 3n2 (Cmul + Cadd + Cexp ).

Challenge Generation: The verifier computes the Fiat-Shamir challenge as y =
H(pp∥VA ∥VB ∥VC ) mod p, where pp denotes public parameters, costing Chash . The prover
derives structured challenge vectors:

                yL = (1, y n , y 2n , . . . , y (n−1)n ),   yR = (1, y, y 2 , . . . , y n−1 ),

requiring 2n·Cpow . The challenge generation phase thus costs: TChallenge = Chash +2n·Cpow .

Prover Computation: The prover computes projections ay = yL       ⊤
                                                                    A, by = ByR , and
µ = yL CyR . Each projection involves approximately n multiplications and n2 additions.
     ⊤                                               2

The witness polynomial:

                                             Pµ (x) − Pay (x) · Pby (x)
                                W (x) =
                                                      x−y

requires polynomial operations costing approximately n2 field operations. Collectively, the
prover complexity is:

                       TProver ≈ 5n2 (Cmul + Cadd ) + 3n2 Cexp + O(n).


Verification:    The verifier checks the pairing equation:

                                                    ?
                          e(VW , sG2 − yG2 ) = e(Vµ − Vay · Vby , G2 ).

This requires exactly two pairing computations via multi-pairing optimization, achieving
constant verification time (3.7 ms in our benchmarks) regardless of matrix dimensions.
Hence, verification complexity is:

                              TVerify = 2 · Cpair + n(Cmul + Cadd ).
24                                   zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


Batch Verification: For t matrix multiplication instances, our batch protocol aggregates
proofs
Pt       using random linear combinations. The batch aggregation computes y batch =
   i=1 ρ
        i−1
            yi , where ρ is a random challenge and yi are individual proof challenges. This
introduces O(t) field operations, while the constant two pairings are preserved regardless
of t. The complete batch verification complexity is

                         TVerify-Batch = 2 · Cpair + t(Cmul + Cadd ),

where t denotes the batch size. Experimental evidence indicates that, for practical matrix
dimensions, the time spent on field operations during batch verification is negligible
compared to the time required for the constant two pairing evaluations. For instance,
with t = 1024, all field operations taking less than 0.1 ms in total, whereas a single
pairing operation requires approximately 1.6 ms, confirming that zkMaP verification is
pairing-dominated and consistent with standard cryptographic practice.



Comparative Operation-Level Analysis: To contextualize zkMaP’s efficiency gains,
we contrast its verification costs with those of zkMatrix [CYY24]. For a single proof,
zkMatrix requires 4Cpair +(14 log2 n+38)Cexp +(3 log2 n+9)Chash , while batch verification
of t proofs costs 4Cpair + ((2t + 12) log2 n + 13t + 25)Cexp . In comparison, zkMaP achieves
the same task with only 2Cpair + n(Cmul + Cadd ) for single proofs and 2Cpair + t(Cmul +
Cadd ) for batch verification. This represents a 50% reduction in pairing operations
and the replacement of costly logarithmic-scale exponentiations with lightweight field
multiplications. Since exponentiations scale as log2 p field multiplications and pairings
dominate verification time, zkMaP’s constant two-pairing design delivers substantial
asymptotic and concrete performance advantages, particularly for large matrices and
high-throughput batch settings.

7.2    Memory Complexity
The memory complexity of zkMaP is analyzed for both single-proof and batch-proof
scenarios, with emphasis on scalability in large-scale matrix multiplication verification.
Single Proof : For a single proof, the prover’s memory is dominated by the storage
of three n × n matrices (i.e., 3n2 field elements), polynomial commitment coefficients,
and intermediate computation state, yielding overall O(n2 ) memory complexity. With
Vandermonde compression enabled, storage reduces to O(ℓn) per matrix where ℓ =
max(⌈n/4⌉, 2λ), providing substantial memory savings for large matrices. The total
memory usage is:
                            Msingle = O(n2 ) · (Cmem + Cpoly )
where Cmem accounts for matrix storage and Cpoly captures polynomial commitment
coefficients.
Batch Proofs: Naive verification of t proofs requires O(tn2 ) memory, which is prohibitive
for large t. zkMaP mitigates this via sub-batching, processing at most b proofs concurrently.
Peak memory becomes
                            Mbatch = O(bn2 ) · (Cmem + Cpoly )
while the prover runtime is
                                   
                                   t 
                       batch
                              =       5bn2 (Cmul + Cadd ) + 3bn2 Cexp
                                                                      
                      Tprover
                                   b

Verification memory remains constant at Cpair due to proof aggregation.
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                              25


Trade-Off Characterization: Sub-batching reduces peak memory from tn2 to bn2 while
incurring a time overhead proportional to t/b. The trade-off relationship is characterized
by Memory Reduction Factor = t/b and Time Overhead Factor = ⌈t/b⌉. In our implemen-
tation, setting b = 8 reduces memory usage to 12.5% of naive batching with only a 12.5%
increase in prover time.
Parameter Selection: The maximum admissible sub-batch size b is bounded by the available
system memory Mavailable as:
                                                      
                                        Mavailable
                             b≤
                                  n2 · (Cmem + Cpoly )
This tunable parameter allows zkMaP to scale from memory-constrained embedded devices
to high-performance servers, providing practitioners with explicit guidelines to balance
memory and performance.

      Table 2: Computational and memory complexity of zkMaP protocol phases.

 Phase                   Computational Complexity                      Memory Complexity
 Setup                   (n + 1)Cexp + 3n (Cmul + Cadd + Cexp )
                           2              2
                                                                       n2 Cmem
 Setup (Compressed)      O(max(n, ℓ))Cexp + 3ℓn(Cmul + Cadd + Cexp )   ℓnCmem
 Challenge Generation    Chash + 2nCpow                                Chash
 Prover (Single)         5n2 (C       + Cadd ) + 3n2 Cexp + O(n)       n2 (Cmem + Cpoly )
                          t   mul2
 Prover (Batch)                 5bn (Cmul + Cadd ) + 3bn2 Cexp         bn2 (Cmem + Cpoly )
                                                               
                           b
 Verification (Single)   2Cpair + n(Cmul + Cadd )                      Cpair
 Verification (Batch)    2Cpair + t(Cmul + Cadd )                      Cpair



8     Implementation and Results
8.1    Implementation Architecture
Our implementation uses the Kate-Zaverucha-Goldberg (KZG) polynomial commitment
scheme as its foundation. The system is implemented in Rust, leveraging the Arkworks
cryptographic library with the BLS12-381 pairing-friendly elliptic curve, which provides
128 bits of security with a 255-bit scalar field. The core modules include a KZG imple-
mentation for polynomial commitments, a ZKMatrixProof structure for zero-knowledge
matrix multiplication proofs, and an OptimizedBatchedZKMatrixProof structure that
implements an efficient batching protocol.
We implemented several technical optimizations to enhance practical efficiency: parallel
processing via Rayon’s work-stealing scheduler to accelerate matrix-to-polynomial conver-
sion; memory-efficient matrix flattening techniques that significantly reduce overhead; and
challenge-based proof aggregation using Fiat-Shamir transformations for non-interactive
proofs. These optimizations collectively contribute to the performance characteristics
observed in our experimental evaluation. To support artifact review and ensure re-
producibility, we provide an anonymized GitHub repository containing the full imple-
mentation, benchmarking scripts, and documentation. The repository is accessible at:
https://github.com/20code-submission-review25/anonzkp-harbor-6092.

8.2    Experimental Setup
Experiments were conducted on an HP Z840 Workstation equipped with an Intel Xeon
E5-2680 v3 processor (48 cores at 2.50GHz) and 128GB RAM, running Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS.
26                                  zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


We measured proving time, verification time, proof size, and memory usage across varying
matrix dimensions from 8 × 8 to 1024 × 1024. For batch proof performance, we measured
the time required to generate and verify multiple proofs simultaneously, with batch sizes
ranging from 4 to 1024. To ensure accurate memory measurements, we implemented a
custom global allocator that tracks peak memory usage during proof generation.


8.3    Performance Analysis




Figure 1: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Performance. Top left: Proving time
vs. matrix size. Top right: Verification time remains constant regardless of matrix size.
Bottom left: Proof size remains fixed at 320 bytes. Bottom right: Memory usage scales
efficiently with matrix size.

Our implementation demonstrates remarkable scaling properties for matrix multiplication
proofs. As shown in Figure 1, the proving time exhibits an initial increase from 5 ms
for 8 × 8 matrices to 50 ms for 32 × 32 matrices, followed by gradual growth, reaching
12,211 ms (approximately 12.21 s) for 1024 × 1024 matrices. This behavior aligns with the
expected O(n2 ) complexity of our proof generation process.

The verification time remains nearly constant at around 3.68 ms across all matrix dimensions,
demonstrating the protocol’s ability to verify matrix multiplications in constant time
regardless of input size. Similarly, the proof size is fixed at 320 bytes for all matrix
dimensions, indicating a communication complexity that is independent of matrix size.
Memory usage scales efficiently, increasing from negligible usage for very small matrices
to 20,672 KB (approximately 20.2 MB) for 1024 × 1024 matrices, which corroborates our
theoretical analysis of O(n2 ) memory complexity.
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                           27




Figure 2: Batching efficiency of our protocol: average time per proof as a function of
batch size, using a sub-batching parameter of b = 8.


Our batching protocol demonstrates significant efficiency gains in multi-proof scenarios.
As illustrated in Figure 2, the average time per proof decreases dramatically from 12.37 s
for individual proofs to approximately 46.79 ms at a batch size of 1,024, representing a
279× speedup. The protocol retains a constant verification time of approximately 3.71 ms
and fixed proof size of 320 bytes, regardless of the batch size.
Parallelization significantly accelerates proof generation, particularly for small to medium-
sized matrices. As shown in Table 4 in the Appendix D, the proving time for 256 × 256
matrices decreases from 16.02 s on a single thread to 0.90 s on 48 threads, achieving a
17.78× speedup. Similarly, 512×512 matrices see a reduction from 66.14 s to 3.02 s, yielding
a 21.92× improvement. However, for larger matrices such as 1024 × 1024, the benefits
of multithreading are curtailed by memory bandwidth and synchronization overheads,
with proving time decreasing from 287.39 s to 12.50 s—a 22.99× speedup. These results
underscore that while multithreading is highly effective for moderate workloads, alternative
strategies like batching may be necessary to further enhance scalability for larger inputs.

8.4    Comparison with Prior Work
  Table 3: Comparison of performance metrics for 1024 × 1024 matrix multiplication
 Protocol                      Transcript   Prover RAM       Prover Time     Verifier Time
                                  Size         Usage
 zkMatrix (Single)               7.67KB        176MB            197.04s         70.15ms
 zkMatrix (Batch, total)        1.42MB         304MB            512.48s          12.06s
 zkMatrix (Batch, per proof)     1.42KB        304KB             0.50s          11.77ms
 Our Work (Single)                320B         24MB             12.21s          3.71ms
 Our Work (Batch, total)          320B        197MB             47.91s          3.73ms
 Our Work (Batch, per proof)      320B         192KB           46.79ms          3.73ms
 QuickSilver                    25.2MB          1GB              10.0s            N/A
 Spartan                        ≤100KB         600GB            ≥5000s            N/A
 Virgo                           221KB         148GB             357s             N/A

Table 3 presents a performance comparison of our approach against state-of-the-art
systems, with a primary focus on zkMatrix as the closest prior work. The reported values
for zkMatrix and the other protocols are taken from their published results, ensuring a
28                                  zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


consistent benchmark environment.
Our verification time remains constant at 3.68 ms, irrespective of batch size, due to its
aggregation-based strategy with O(1) complexity. This yields a 19.07× improvement over
zkMatrix’s single-proof verification time of 70.15 ms. For prover efficiency, our scheme
achieves a 16.14× speedup, reducing the proving time for a single 1024 × 1024 matrix
multiplication from 197.04 s (zkMatrix) to 12.21 s. In batched proof generation, zkMatrix
requires 512.48 s for processing, while our approach completes the same task in 47.9 s,
reflecting a 10.7× reduction in total prover time. On a per-proof basis, our scheme achieves
a 10.68× speedup, reducing zkMatrix’s 500 ms proving time per proof to 46.79 ms. Unlike
zkMatrix, where verification time scales with batch size (increasing from 70.15 ms to
12.06 s for 1024 proofs), our approach maintains a constant verification time of 3.68 ms,
ensuring scalability.
When comparing our approach with QuickSilver, several technical differences explain the
performance characteristics. We use KZG commitments based on elliptic curve pairings,
which enable constant-size proofs but require a trusted setup. QuickSilver uses a subfield
VOLE (Vector Oblivious Linear Evaluation) based approach, which doesn’t require a
trusted setup but results in larger proof sizes. Our approach leverages efficient matrix-
to-polynomial conversion using techniques optimized for the KZG commitment scheme,
while QuickSilver represents matrix multiplication as a collection of inner products. Our
batching strategy uses challenge-based aggregation to achieve a 45.5× speedup, while
QuickSilver focuses on reducing communication complexity rather than batching efficiency.
Both approaches offer robust security guarantees. Our implementation provides computa-
tional security based on the hardness of the discrete logarithm problem in elliptic curve
groups, with the BLS12-381 curve offering 128-bit security, whereas QuickSilver provides
128-bit computational security with statistical security parameters that vary with field
size.


8.5    Practical Implications
A straightforward method for verifying matrix multiplication requires transmitting full
input matrices and the resulting product, leading to a communication complexity of O(n2 ).
For example, verifying 1024 × 1024 matrices with 32-byte field elements would involve
approximately 3GB of data transfer per proof. In addition, traditional verification requires
O(n3 ) computations, amounting to over one billion field multiplications for matrices of
this size, which is impractical in many real-world scenarios.
In contrast, our approach drastically reduces both communication and computational
overhead. By achieving O(1) communication and verification time, our protocol is particu-
larly well-suited for blockchain and distributed ledger systems where minimizing on-chain
storage and verification costs is crucial. Specifically, our protocol attains a constant
verification time of approximately 3.71 ms and produces a compact proof of only 320 bytes,
representing a significant reduction in communication compared to naive methods.
Figure 3 illustrates the performance comparison between standard (non-zero-knowledge)
and our zkMaP-based matrix multiplication approaches. The y-axis is presented on a
logarithmic scale to highlight relative performance trends across various matrix sizes.
while non-ZK computation shows cubic growth O(n3 ), requiring 102.79 s at n = 1024,
zkMaP proving scales quadratically O(n2 ), needing only 12.21 s. Verification remains
constant-time O(1) at 3.71 ms regardless of matrix size. At n = 256, zkMaP achieves a
1.46× speedup over standard computation, increasing to 8.4× at n = 1024. These results
confirm our theoretical analysis: O(n2 ) for proving and O(1) for verification, outperforming
conventional O(n3 ) methods. The proof size remains fixed at 320 bytes.
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                            29




Figure 3: Performance comparison between standard (non-ZK) and zkMaP-based matrix
multiplication on a logarithmic scale (milliseconds). At n = 1024, zkMaP demonstrates
competitive performance, with a modest overhead relative to the standard method, thus
establishing its practical viability in real-world applications.


Overall, the substantial improvements in both theoretical asymptotic complexity and
practical performance metrics underscore the viability of our method for efficient zero-
knowledge proofs in large-scale matrix multiplication applications.




8.6    Real-World Deployment Considerations
zkMaP’s efficiency and fixed-size proofs enable deployment across a wide range of real-world
systems. On blockchain platforms such as Ethereum, the 320-byte proof and deterministic
two-pairing verification ensure predictable gas costs, while the non-interactive protocol
reduces transaction rounds, latency, and on-chain expenses. For resource-constrained
devices, including IoT and edge nodes, configurable sub-batching allows proofs to be
processed even with limited memory, and the constant verification footprint guarantees
predictable resource usage regardless of proof complexity. Furthermore, the fixed-size
proof format and standard binary serialization facilitate seamless integration with virtual
machines and cryptographic libraries, eliminating dynamic memory allocation and ensuring
compatibility across programming environments and network protocols. These properties
collectively support deployment in privacy-preserving frameworks such as decentralized
identity verification, secure multi-party computation, and confidential smart contract
execution.


9     Conclusion
We have presented zkMaP, a novel zero-knowledge proof protocol for matrix multiplication
achieves high efficiency through polynomial encodings, KZG commitments, and structured
inner-product reductions. By reducing verification to a single constant-size pairing equation,
zkMaP requires only two pairing operations regardless of matrix dimensions, achieves
30                                 zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


optimal O(n2 ) prover complexity, and generates compact proofs of 320 bytes—representing
a 96% reduction compared to prior schemes.
Our experimental evaluation demonstrates significant practical improvements: For 1024 ×
1024 matrices, zkMaP achieves a 16.14× speedup over zkMatrix with proof generation
in 12.21 seconds using just 24.6 MB memory. The protocol scales efficiently in batch
processing scenarios, achieving per-proof times of 46.79 ms while maintaining constant
verification at 3.71 ms. These results position zkMaP as a practical solution for real-
world applications requiring privacy-preserving machine learning, secure analytics, and
collaborative computation.
While zkMaP currently relies on the q-SDH assumption in bilinear groups and is not post-
quantum secure, future work will explore lattice-based alternatives such as SLAP [AFLN24]
to achieve quantum resistance. Additional research directions include extensions to tensor
operations, integration with federated learning frameworks, and GPU acceleration for
further performance gains.


References
[AFLN24]    Martin R. Albrecht, Giacomo Fenzi, Oleksandra Lapiha, and Ngoc Khanh
            Nguyen. Slap: Succinct lattice-based polynomial commitments from standard
            assumptions. In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2024: 43rd Annual
            International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic
            Techniques, Zurich, Switzerland, May 26–30, 2024, Proceedings, Part VII,
            volume 14657 of LNCS, pages 90–119. Springer, 2024. doi:10.1007/978-3
            -031-58754-2_4.
[BBB+ 18]   Benedikt Bünz, Jonathan Bootle, Dan Boneh, Andrew Poelstra, Pieter Wuille,
            and Greg Maxwell. Bulletproofs: Short proofs for confidential transactions
            and more. In 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 315–334.
            IEEE, 2018. doi:10.1109/SP.2018.00020.
[BCCT12]    Nir Bitansky, Ran Canetti, Alessandro Chiesa, and Eran Tromer. From
            extractable collision resistance to succinct non-interactive arguments of knowl-
            edge, and back again. In ITCS ’12: Proceedings of the 3rd Innovations
            in Theoretical Computer Science Conference, pages 326–349. ACM, 2012.
            doi:10.1145/2090236.2090263.
[BGM17]     Sean Bowe, Ariel Gabizon, and Ian Miers. Scalable multi-party computation
            for zk-snark parameters in the random beacon model. Cryptology ePrint
            Archive, 2017. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/1050.
[BLS04]     Dan Boneh, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. Short signatures from the weil
            pairing. Journal of Cryptology, 17(4):297–319, 2004. doi:10.1007/s00145-0
            04-0314-9.
[BN06]      Mihir Bellare and Gregory Neven. Multi-signatures in the plain public-key
            model and a general forking lemma. In CCS ’06: Proceedings of the 13th
            ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 390–399.
            ACM, 2006. doi:10.1145/1180405.1180453.
[BR93]      Mihir Bellare and Phillip Rogaway. Random oracles are practical: A paradigm
            for designing efficient protocols. In CCS ’93: Proceedings of the 1st ACM
            Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 62–73. ACM,
            1993. doi:10.1145/168588.168596.
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                     31


[BSBHR18] Eli Ben-Sasson, Iddo Bentov, Yinon Horesh, and Michael Riabzev. Scalable,
          transparent, and post-quantum secure computational integrity. Cryptology
          ePrint Archive, Report 2018/046, 2018. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/
          2018/046.
[CBBZ23]   Binyi Chen, Benedikt Bünz, Dan Boneh, and Zhenfei Zhang. HyperPlonk:
           Plonk with linear-time prover and high-degree custom gates. In Advances in
           Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2023: 42nd Annual International Conference on
           the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, Lyon, France, April
           23–27, 2023, Proceedings, Part II, volume 14077 of LNCS, pages 499–530.
           Springer, 2023. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-30617-4_17.
[CFQ19]    Matteo Campanelli, Dario Fiore, and Anaïs Querol. LegoSNARK: Modular de-
           sign and composition of succinct zero-knowledge proofs. In CCS ’19: Proceed-
           ings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
           Security, pages 2075–2092. ACM, 2019. doi:10.1145/3319535.3339820.
[CHM+ 20] Alessandro Chiesa, Yuncong Hu, Mary Maller, Pratyush Mishra, Noah Vesely,
          and Nicholas Ward. Marlin: Preprocessing zksnarks with universal and
          updatable srs. In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2020: 39th Annual
          International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic
          Techniques, Zagreb, Croatia, May 10–14, 2020, Proceedings, Part I, volume
          12105 of LNCS, pages 738–768. Springer, 2020. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-4
          5721-1_26.
[CYY24]    Mingshu Cong, Tsz Hon Yuen, and Siu-Ming Yiu. zkMatrix: Batched short
           proof for committed matrix multiplication. In AsiaCCS ’24: Proceedings of
           the 19th ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
           pages 289–305. ACM, 2024. doi:10.1145/3634737.3645003.
[FKL18]    Georg Fuchsbauer, Eike Kiltz, and Julian Loss. The algebraic group model and
           its applications. In Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2018: 38th Annual
           International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 19–23,
           2018, Proceedings, Part II, volume 10991 of LNCS, pages 33–62. Springer,
           2018. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-96881-0_2.
[FS86]     Amos Fiat and Adi Shamir. How to prove yourself: Practical solutions to
           identification and signature problems. In Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO
           1986: 6th Annual International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA,
           USA, August 18–22, 1986, Proceedings, volume 263 of LNCS, pages 186–194.
           Springer, 1986. doi:10.1007/3-540-47721-7_12.
[GO94]     Oded Goldreich and Yair Oren. Definitions and properties of zero-knowledge
           proof systems. Journal of Cryptology, 7(1):1–32, 1994. doi:10.1007/BF0019
           5207.
[Gro09]    Jens Groth. Linear algebra with sub-linear zero-knowledge arguments. In
           Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2009: 29th Annual International Cryp-
           tology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 16–20, 2009, Pro-
           ceedings, volume 5677 of LNCS, pages 192–208. Springer, 2009. doi:
           10.1007/978-3-642-03356-8_12.
[Gro16]    Jens Groth. On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments. In
           Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2016: 35th Annual International
           Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques,
           Vienna, Austria, May 8-12, 2016, Proceedings, Part II, volume 9666 of LNCS,
           pages 305–326. Springer, 2016. doi:10.1007/978-3-662-49896-5_11.
32                                zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


[GWC19]     Ariel Gabizon, Zachary J Williamson, and Oana Ciobotaru. Plonk: Per-
            mutations over lagrange-bases for oecumenical noninteractive arguments
            of knowledge. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/953, 2019. URL:
            https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/953.
[KZG10]     Aniket Kate, Gregory M Zaverucha, and Ian Goldberg. Constant-size com-
            mitments to polynomials and their applications. In Advances in Cryptology
            – ASIACRYPT 2010: 16th International Conference on the Theory and Ap-
            plication of Cryptology and Information Security, Singapore, December 5-9,
            2010, Proceedings, volume 6476 of LNCS, pages 177–194. Springer, 2010.
            doi:10.1007/978-3-642-17373-8_11.
[MBKM19] Mary Maller, Sean Bowe, Markulf Kohlweiss, and Sarah Meiklejohn. Sonic:
         Zero-knowledge snarks from linear-size universal and updatable structured
         reference strings. In CCS ’19: Proceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Con-
         ference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 2111–2128. ACM,
         2019. doi:10.1145/3319535.3339817.
[PHGR16]    Bryan Parno, Jon Howell, Craig Gentry, and Mariana Raykova. Pinocchio:
            Nearly Practical Verifiable Computation. Communications of the ACM,
            59(2):103–112, 2016. doi:10.1145/2856449.
[Sch80]     Jacob T Schwartz. Fast probabilistic algorithms for verification of polynomial
            identities. Journal of the ACM (JACM), 27(4):701–717, 1980. doi:10.1145/
            322217.322225.
[Tha13]     Justin Thaler. Time-optimal interactive proofs for circuit evaluation. In Ad-
            vances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2013: 33rd Annual International Cryptology
            Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 18–22, 2013, Proceedings, pages
            71–89. Springer, 2013. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-40084-1_5.
[WTS+ 18] Riad S Wahby, Ioanna Tzialla, Abhi Shelat, Justin Thaler, and Michael
          Walfish. Doubly-efficient zksnarks without trusted setup. In 2018 IEEE
          Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 926–943. IEEE, 2018. doi:10.1
          109/SP.2018.00060.
[XZZ+ 19]   Tiacheng Xie, Jiaheng Zhang, Yupeng Zhang, Charalampos Papamanthou,
            and Dawn Song. Libra: Succinct zero-knowledge proofs with optimal prover
            computation. In Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2019: 39th Annual
            International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 18–22,
            2019, Proceedings, Part III, volume 11693 of LNCS, pages 733–764. Springer,
            2019. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-26954-8_24.
[YSWW21] Kang Yang, Pratik Sarkar, Chenkai Weng, and Xiao Wang. Quicksilver:
         Efficient and affordable zero-knowledge proofs for circuits and polynomials
         over any field. In CCS ’21: Proceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference
         on Computer and Communications Security, pages 2986–3001. ACM, 2021.
         doi:10.1145/3460120.3484556.


A     Proof of Theorem 2
Proof. Assume for contradiction that there exists a probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT)
adversary A that breaks the binding property of KZG polynomial commitments with
non-negligible advantage ϵ(λ), where λ is the security parameter. We construct a reduction
B that uses A as a subroutine to solve the q-Strong Diffie-Hellman (q-SDH) problem with
the same advantage.
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                               33


Reduction Setup. Given a q-SDH challenge instance G1 , sG1 , s2 G1 , . . . , sq G1 , G2 , sG2
                                                                                                
          $
where s ← Fp is unknown, the reduction B constructs the structured reference string
SRS = (G1 , sG1 , . . . , sq G1 ) and provides it to A.
Adversarial Output and Collision Analysis. Suppose A outputs a binding collision
(V, P1 , P2 ) where P1 (x), P2 (x) ∈ Fp [x] are distinct polynomials with deg(P1 ), deg(P2 ) ≤ q,
yet P1 (s)G1 = P2 (s)G1 = V .
Define the difference polynomial Q(x) = P1 (x) − P2 (x) ∈ Fp [x]. Since P1 ̸= P2 , we have
Q(x) ̸≡ 0 with deg(Q) ≤ q. From the collision:

                        Q(s)G1 = (P1 (s) − P2 (s))G1 = V − V = 0G1

Since G1 has prime order p, this implies Q(s) = 0.
Polynomial Factorization and Extraction. By the Factor Theorem, there exists a
unique polynomial R(x) ∈ Fp [x] such that:

                                     Q(x) = (x − s)R(x)

with deg(R) = deg(Q) − 1 ≤ q − 1. The reduction B computes R(x) via polynomial division
of Q(x) by (x − s).
Construction of q-SDH Solution. Using the SRS, B computes:
                                              deg(R)
                                               X
                                   R(s)G1 =            ri (si G1 )
                                               i=0

             Pdeg(R)
where R(x) = i=0 ri xi . The reduction B outputs (0, R(s)G1 ) as the solution to the
q-SDH problem. This is valid because:
    • The polynomial relation Q(x) = (x − s)R(x) with Q(s) = 0 and Q(x) ̸= 0 demon-
      strates an algebraic dependency on the secret s
    • The value R(s) = Q(s)
                       s−s represents an indeterminate form whose computation requires
      breaking the q-SDH assumption
    • The solution (0, R(s)G1 ) explicitly violates the q-SDH hardness property
Success Probability. The reduction succeeds with advantage ϵ(λ) because:
    • The SRS distribution is identical to the q-SDH challenge
    • Polynomial division is deterministic given A’s output
    • Every valid binding collision produces a q-SDH solution
                     Pr[B solves q-SDH] = Pr[A breaks binding] = ϵ(λ)

Contradiction. This contradicts the q-SDH assumption since ϵ(λ) is non-negligible.
Therefore, no PPT adversary can break the binding property of KZG commitments with
non-negligible probability.


B      Proof of Theorem 3
Proof. Suppose there exists a PPT adversary A that produces a forged proof (A, B, C, π̃),
accepted by the verifier despite C ̸= A × B, with non-negligible probability ϵ(λ). We
construct a reduction B that breaks the q-SDH assumption by leveraging A as a subroutine.
34                                   zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


Reduction Setup: Given a q-SDH challenge tuple (G1 , sG1 , . . . , sq G1 , G2 , sG2 ), the reduc-
tion B uses this tuple as the structured reference string SRS, and forwards it to A.
Adversarial Output: The adversary returns matrices (A, B, C) and forged proof π̃ =
(Vay , Vby , Vµ , VW ), such that the verifier accepts the proof and yet C ̸= A × B. Let y ∈ Fp
denote the evaluation point derived during the protocol execution. Define the following
polynomials:

         Pay (x) = Poly(yL
                         ⊤
                           A),     Pby (x) = Poly(ByR ),        Pµ (x) = Poly(yL
                                                                               ⊤
                                                                                 CyR ).

Then, define the polynomial:

                              Q(x) := Pµ (x) − Pay (x) · Pby (x).

Since C ̸= A × B, we have Q(x) ̸≡ 0, and in particular Q(y) ̸= 0. The adversary must
have computed the witness polynomial:
                                                  Q(x)
                                       W (x) :=        .
                                                  x−y
The pairing-based verification condition:

                          e VW , (s − y)G2 = e Vµ − Vay Vby , G2
                                                                

implies, using bilinearity and the SRS encoding:
                                                  Q(s)
                                     W (s)G1 =         G1 .
                                                  s−y

Extracting the q-SDH Solution: From the above, the reduction can compute:

                                     Q(s) = (s − y)W (s).

Since Q(x) and (x − y) are coprime (as Q(y) ̸= 0), the Extended Euclidean Algorithm
yields polynomials A(x), B(x) such that:

                                A(x)Q(x) + B(x)(x − y) = 1.

Evaluating at x = s:

            A(s)Q(s) + B(s)(s − y) = 1       ⇒     (s − y)(A(s)W (s) + B(s)) = 1.

Hence,
                                   1
                                      = A(s)W (s) + B(s),
                                  s−y
and using the SRS:
                              1
                                 G1 = A(s)W (s)G1 + B(s)G1 .
                             s−y
This yields a valid solution (y, s−y
                                  1
                                     G1 ) to the q-SDH problem.
Success Probability: The degree of Q(x) is at most 2n − 2. By the Schwartz–Zippel lemma:
                                                     2n − 2
                                   Pr[Q(s) = 0] ≤           ,
                                                       p

                                                           ϵ(λ), then
which is negligible. Therefore, if A succeeds with probability      the reduction B
solves the q-SDH problem with probability at least ϵ(λ) · 1 − 2n−2
                                                                p  , contradicting the
q-SDH assumption.
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                                                        35


C      Proof of Theorem 6
Proof. 1. Perfect Completeness: Assume Ci = Ai × Bi for all i ∈ [t]. The prover:
    • Encodes each matrix into polynomials PAi (x), PBi (x), PCi (x).
    • Computes KZG commitments VAi , VBi , VCi .
    • Computes challenge yi ← H(pp ∥ VAi ∥ VBi ∥ VCi ) mod p, constructs vectors yL
                                                                                  i    i
                                                                                    , yR ,
      and forms the witness:
                                        µi − Payi (x)Pbiy (x)
                               Wi (x) =
                                              x − yi
       where µi = yL
                   i⊤     i
                      Ci yR                                       i yL , Bi yR
                            , and Payi (x), Pbiy (x) interpolate A⊤  i       i


                                         $
    • Aggregates using ρ ← Fp :
                                                    t
                                                    X                                    t
                                                                                         X
                                        VAbatch =         ρi−1 VAi ,        VBbatch =           ρi−1 VBi
                                                    i=1                                   i=1
                                                    Xt                                  
                                        Dbatch =      ρi−1 Vµi − Vayi · Vbiy
                                                    i=1
                                                     Xt
                                         batch
                                        VW     =          ρi−1 VWi
                                                    i=1


For honest provers, µi = Payi (yi )Pbiy (yi ), so:

                       Vµi − Vayi · Vbiy = µi G1 − Payi (s)Pbiy (s)G1 = (s − yi )VWi

Homomorphic aggregation gives:
                       t                                          t
                                                                                   !
                       X                                          X
       D   batch
                   =         ρ   i−1
                                       (s − yi )VWi =       s−          i−1
                                                                        ρ     yi        batch
                                                                                       VW     = (s − z batch )VW
                                                                                                               batch

                       i=1                                        i=1
                       Pt
where z batch =          i=1 ρ
                                  i−1
                                        yi . Thus, verification holds:
                                          batch
                                       e(VW     , (s − z batch )G2 ) = e(Dbatch , G2 )

2. Perfect SHVZK: Note on ZK: Achieves Special Honest Verifier Zero-Knowledge
(SHVZK). Full ZK in non-interactive setting via Fiat-Shamir requires random oracle
programming analysis.
The simulator S (given public inputs VAi , VBi , VCi , challenges ρ, yi , and SRS (G1 , sG1 , . . . , sq G1 , G2 , sG2 )):
                         Pt
  • Computes z batch = i=1 ρi−1 yi
                                        $
    • Samples random r ← Fp
    • Sets VW
            batch
                  = rG1
    • Computes Dbatch = r · sG1 − z batch G1
                                                   

    • Outputs VAbatch , VBbatch , Dbatch , VW
                                            batch
                                                  

The distribution is identical to real proofs due to:
    • VW
       batch
             uniform in G1 (KZG hiding)
36                                       zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


     • Dbatch satisfies verification equation by construction
3. Computational Soundness: If an adversary forges an accepting batch proof where
some Cj ̸= Aj × Bj :
     • By Theorem 3, for the false instance j: Vµj − Vayj · Vbjy ̸= (s − yj )VWj
     • Define the polynomial:
                                   t
                                   X                                             
                         F (ρ) =         ρi−1 (Vµi − Vayi · Vbiy ) − (s − yi )VWi
                                   i=1


     • F (ρ) is non-zero with degree at most t − 1, so for random ρ: Pr[F (ρ) = 0] ≤ t−1
                                                                                      p

     • When F (ρ) ̸= 0, extraction in the Algebraic Group Model yields a q-SDH solution
       following the same technique as in Theorem 3.
Using this identity and applying the extended Euclidean algorithm to isolate s−c
                                                                              1
                                                                                 G1 , one
can solve the q-SDH problem as in Theorem 3.
Adversary advantage is bounded by:
                                                              t−1
                                   ϵ(λ) ≤ Advq-SDH (B) +
                                                               p

The simulator does not require knowledge of the trapdoor s, ensuring that the simulation
remains valid under the zero-knowledge property. We conclude that the Batch zkMaP
protocol offers a compelling trade-off between succinctness, security, and computational
cost, making it a promising candidate for practical SNARK-based matrix relations.


D       Parallelization Performance
     Table 4: Proving and verification time across different thread counts (in seconds).

         Matrix Size   Threads     Proof Time (s)       Verification Time (s)   Speedup (×)
                           1              3.948               0.00368                  1.00
                           4              1.017               0.00367                  3.88
             128           8              0.532               0.00366                  7.42
                          16              0.317               0.00383                 12.44
                          48              0.237               0.00366                 16.68
                           1              16.022              0.00368                  1.00
                           4               4.077              0.00368                  3.93
             256           8               2.073              0.00364                  7.73
                          16              1.170               0.00368                 13.69
                          48              0.901               0.00383                 17.78
                           1              66.136              0.00373                  1.00
                           4              16.633              0.00372                  3.98
             512           8               8.367              0.00379                  7.90
                          16              4.391               0.00385                 15.06
                          48              3.017               0.00382                 21.92
                           1             287.392              0.00378                  1.00
                           4              72.065              0.00386                  3.99
             1024          8              36.084              0.00383                  7.96
                          16             18.242               0.00369                 15.75
                          48             12.502               0.00374                 22.99
Biniyam Deressa, M. Anwar Hasan                                                           37


E     Algorithm 2

Algorithm 2 zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Proof for Matrix Multi-
plication
Require: Matrices A, B ∈ Fn×n       p   , C = A × B;
                                      2
        SRS {sG1 , s2 G1 , . . . , sn −1 G1 }, {G2 , sG2 }, public parameters pp
Ensure: Proof π = (VA , VB , VC , Vay , Vby , Vµ , VW )
 1: procedure CommitMatrices
 2:     Construct polynomials:
                                                n−1
                                                X n−1
                                                    X
                                    PA (x) ←              A[i, j]xin+j
                                                i=0 j=0

 3:    Similarly construct PB (x), PC (x)
 4:    Compute commitments:

                       VA ← PA (s)G1 , VB ← PB (s)G1 , VC ← PC (s)G1

 5: end procedure
 6: procedure ChallengeGeneration
 7:    Compute y ← H(pp ∥ VA ∥ VB ∥ VC ) mod p
 8:    Define vectors:

                      yL ← (1, y n , . . . , y (n−1)n )⊤ , yR ← (1, y, . . . , y n−1 )⊤

 9: end procedure
10: procedure ProverComputation
11:    Compute projections: ay ← yL
                                  ⊤
                                    A, by ← ByR
12:    Interpolate Pay (x), Pby (x) from ay , by
13:    Commitments:
14:    Vay ← Pay (s)G1 , Vby ← Pby (s)G1
15:    Compute µ ← yL   ⊤
                          CyR
16:    Vµ ← µG1
17:    Construct witness polynomial:

                                                µ − Pay (x) · Pby (x)
                                    W (x) ←
                                                      x−y

18:    VW ← W (s)G1
19:    return π ← (VA , VB , VC , Vay , Vby , Vµ , VW )
20: end procedure
21: procedure Verify(pp, π)
22:    Parse π = (VA , VB , VC , Vay , Vby , Vµ , VW )
23:    Compute y ← H(pp ∥ VA ∥ VB ∥ VC ) mod p
24:    Verify pairing equation:
                                         ?
                  e(VW , sG2 − yG2 ) = e(Vµ , G2 ) · e(Vay , G2 )−1 · e(Vby , G2 )−1

25:    if equality holds then return Accept
26:    elsereturn Reject
27:    end if
28: end procedure
38                                        zkMaP: Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proofs


F      Algorithm 3

Algorithm 3 Batch Zero-Knowledge Matrix Multiplication Proof (zkMaP)
Require: Matrix pairs {(Ai , Bi )}ti=1 , where Ai , Bi ∈ Fn×n        p ;
 1: Products Ci = Ai × Bi for i ∈ [1, t];
 2: KZG SRS (G1 , sG1 , . . . , sq G1 , G2 , sG2 ) with trapdoor s ∈ Fp ;
 3: Hash function H : {0, 1}∗ → Fp
Ensure: Zero-knowledge proof for {Ci = Ai × Bi }ti=1
 4: procedure Setup
 5:    for i ∈ [1, t] do
                                                                   2
 6:       Flatten Ai , Bi , Ci row-wise to vectors in Fnp
 7:       Map to polynomials: PAi (x), PBi (x), PCi (x) ∈ Fp [x]
 8:       Commit: VAi ← PAi (s)G1 , VBi ← PBi (s)G1 , VCi ← PCi (s)G1
 9:    end for
10: end procedure
11: procedure GenerateIndividualProofs
12:    for i ∈ [1, t] do
13:       Challenge: yi ← H(pp ∥ VAi ∥ VBi ∥ VCi ) mod p
                                                           (n−1)n ⊤
14:       Construct vectors: yL     i
                                      ← (1, yin , . . . , yi      ) , yR
                                                                       i
                                                                         ← (1, yi , . . . , yin−1 )⊤
15:       Compute projections: ay ← (yL ) Ai , by ← Bi yR
                                        i        i ⊤          i        i

16:       Interpolate: Payi (x), Pbiy (x) from ayi , biy
17:       Commit: Vayi ← Payi (s)G1 , Vbiy ← Pbiy (s)G1
18:       Compute: µi ← (yL        ) Ci yR
                                 i ⊤       i
                                              , Vµi ← µi G1
19:       Witness:
                                                µi − Payi (x) · Pbiy (x)
                                   Wi (x) ←
                                                           x − yi
20:         Commit: VWi ← Wi (s)G1
21:    end for
22: end procedure
23: procedure AggregateBatchProof
          $
24:    ρ ← Fp
                 Pt                               Pt
25:    VAbatch
               ← i=1 ρi−1 VAi , VBbatch ← i=1 ρi−1 VBi
                 Pt
26:    Dbatch ← i=1 ρi−1 (Vµi − Vayi · Vbiy )
                 Pt
27:    VWbatch
               ← i=1 ρi−1 VWi
28:    return (VAbatch , VBbatch , Dbatch , VW
                                             batch
                                                   )
29: end procedure
30: procedure Verify(BatchProof)
                             Pt
31:    Compute: z batch ← i=1 ρi−1 yi
32:    Verify pairing:
                                                              ?
                                  batch
                               e(VW     , (s − z batch )G2 ) = e(Dbatch , G2 )

33:    if holds then
34:        return Accept
35:    else
36:        return Reject
37:    end if
38: end procedure
